19:30 <@g2boojum> It's 1930 UTC.  Thank you all for being here, and congratulations on successfully navigating the time change.  The first item on the agenda is an update on the 2004.1 release.  Zhen?
19:30 <@pvdabeel> drobbins: hey
19:31  * tseng pokes zhen :P
19:31 <@Method> lol
19:31  * g2boojum taps zhen's shoulder
19:32  * dmwaters prods zhen
19:32 <@Method> noones pinching his legs!
19:32 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v zhen] by g2boojum
19:32 <+zhen> thanks :)
19:32 <+zhen> sorry about that, a window took over xchat
19:32 <+zhen> anyway, 2004.1 update
19:33 <+zhen> I will be very quick. I just want to let everyone know that releng is in fact making progress :)
19:33 <+zhen> yesterday (the 11th) marked the beginning of the first phase of the testing/ QA phase of the release
19:33 -!- carpaski [~carpaski@carpaski.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:34 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o carpaski] by ChanServ
19:34 <+zhen> the guidelines that are used for QA can be found in the release guidlines: http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/releng/docs/release_guidelines.xml
19:34 <+zhen> Each arch release coordinator is to make their release components publically available for testing, and notify -releng when they are
19:34 <+zhen> i believe that ppc and x86 are already available for testing, bug beejay and pvdabeel for more information
19:35 <+zhen> on the 18th, all release components must be complete and uploaded to the arch release coordinaror's devspace for final QA by releng
19:35 <+zhen> then from there, we stage the mirrors around the 22nd :)
19:35 <+zhen> and on the 28th (the release date) bits are flipped to a+r on the mirrors, and the release is made public
19:36 <+zhen> so, everything is on time, on task, and 2004.1 is expected to go very smooth
19:36 <+zhen> questions?
19:36 <+zhen> (told you that I would be quick ;) )
19:36 <@spyderous> is the emerge security being postponed to .2?
19:36 <+zhen> i have been in contact w/ genone about it
19:36 <+zhen> it is in testing right now as well, so it will not be packaged with 2004.1
19:37 <+zhen> but he expects it to be integrated in the meantime between .1 and .2
19:37 <@seemant> neither will cascading profiles
19:37 <+zhen> so yes and no
19:37 <@Method> seemant: no?
19:37 <+zhen> Method: they still need teseting
19:37 <+zhen> s/testing
19:37 <@seemant> Method: not for .1
19:37 <+zhen> a Portage that can use them (-r3) was just released, so we did not have sufficient time to test them for the release
19:37 <@Method> are we free to use them for hardened's 2004.1 releases?
19:37 <@spyderous> be back in a bit.
19:37 <+zhen> Method: if you feel brave
19:37 <+zhen> Method: its up to the release coordinator for your team
19:37 <@tseng> I have spyderous's votes is we get to that
19:38 <@Method> ok
19:38 <+zhen> any other questions?
19:38 <+zhen> if not, Grant, its all yours
19:39 <@g2boojum> zhen: Thanks, that was very nice.   The next item on the agenda is the proposed "services" project.  Do I need to remind people what this proposal is for?
19:39 <@drobbins> yep
19:39 <@g2boojum> k
19:40 -!- Cretin [~saj@82-45-234-134.cable.ubr02.enfi.blueyonder.co.uk] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:40 -!- HumpBack [~humpback@HumpBack.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:41 <@g2boojum> The basic idea is that we have nobody overseeing the large number of packages that provide services: webapps, http servers, mail servers of various forms, ldap, etc.  I'm proposing that we create a project that would effectively oversee and coordinate all of the various servers / services that we have in portage, essentially serving as the services analogue of our already existing desktop project.
19:42 <@g2boojum> (The full exposition should be in your -core mail from 8 Apr)
19:42 <@pauldv> g2boojum: If I'm correct it would be what I originally called server. I'm ok with services as a name though
19:42 <@Method> isn't there already a -servers project (led by klieber?)
19:42 <@seemant> I believe kurt's proposal was a bit different
19:43 <@drobbins> g2boojum: I can't support anything that would result in any additional managers
19:43 <@g2boojum> Method: No, that's an entirely different project which was never approved.  He wanted to set up a project to establish a more stable tree.
19:43 <@drobbins> g2boojum: a herd or team would be fine
19:43 <@Method> oh,ok
19:44 <@pauldv> Method: that is a different project (kurt's one), that's why services might be a better name. The server project from klieber could be a subproject
19:44 <@g2boojum> drobbins: Okay, then what project would it come under?  If you look at the current structure, there is no place for it other than base, as far as I can tell.
19:44 <@Method> ok, webapps is a herd of ebuilds right? would services be the same thing?
19:44 -!- johnm [~johnm@johnm.registered] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:44 <@drobbins> g2boojum: I'd just allow it to self-organize and have its own page
19:45 <@drobbins> like the games team
19:45 <@drobbins> ?
19:45 <@g2boojum> I should admit that my interest is partially as one of the GLEP editors.  Right now anything that might require a notable restructuring in how a certain service is run requires a full vote by all managers, or it gets done w/ no vote at all.  *Shrug*
19:46 <@Method> good point
19:46 <@pauldv> g2boojum: we indeed might need some restructuring. I do however agree with daniel on the amount of managers. It's a bit getting out of hand
19:47 <@Method> what project is webapps under?
19:48 <@drobbins> g2boojum: maybe some good old-fashioned technical discussions and collaboration can be encouraged?
19:48 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o johnm] by avenj
19:48 <@g2boojum> drobbins: I'm not really objecting to your suggestion; just pointing out the problems I've been hitting.  Restructuring would suit me just as well.  Incidentally, the games page doesn't exist.  At least, it's not at all clear how to find it from the front page or the project page.  
19:48 <@g2boojum> Method: It's not under a project.  That's why we had a full vote about it.
19:48 <@drobbins> g2boojum: I've asked infra several times to get that set up, over the past 6 months or so
19:49 <@g2boojum> (I know that the games page does, in fact, exist, just that it's hard to find)
19:49 <@drobbins> g2boojum: the games team should have something to link to atm, but that's another topic
19:49 <@pauldv> g2boojum: games is a subproject of desktop. They should be under desktop, if they are not, it is an oversight
19:50 <@seemant> services doesn't actually fall as a subproject of anything
19:50 <@seemant> not until -servers exists
19:50 <@tseng> the games team currently has pages on spankys private server I believe
19:50 <@drobbins> g2boojum: my point is that they have their own content, etc.
19:50 <@tseng> which is better than none at all
19:50 <@tseng> that topic is totally unrelated imo.
19:51 <@Method> seemant: so is it fine to have a 'subproject' without a parent project?
19:51 <@seemant> Method: makes things messy, to me
19:51 <@Method> indeed
19:52 <@pauldv> Method: no it is not, however it is better to have a subproject without a parent than to have none at all
19:52 <@seemant> Method: I can see making services a tlp, and superceding it with -servers once that's ready
19:52 <@g2boojum> drobbins: The other part of the proposal that does need to be addressed, at least in the future, is that a _lot_ of bugs are falling through the cracks for important servers because nobody oversees them.  I don't know if we could recruit a non-manager "services czar", but it would be nice to have one.
19:52 <@tseng> could anyone tell me why we object to another manager?
19:52 <@tseng> esp. if it is g2boojum, who is already in the loop
19:52 <@g2boojum> tseng: Actually, I wasn't planning to volunteer.
19:53 <@tseng> it seems to me that we could about 270 folks as developers, with say 10 managers
19:53 <@tseng> giving a ratio of 1:27
19:53 <@tseng> is that so bad?
19:53 <@pauldv> tseng: cooperation starts to get kind of grinding once we get many managers
19:53 <@pauldv> tseng: we allready have more in -managers
19:53 <@drobbins> tseng: because we could have 100 projects all with a manager
19:53 <@tseng> point taken, thank you.
19:54 <@Method> also, the more managers we get the more difficult a restructuring wrt the NFP will be
19:54 <@drobbins> tseng: there is no clear point where we say "ok, everything is managed"
19:54 <@drobbins> yes it does
19:54 <@pauldv> tseng: we might instead make more work of leveling the structure and merge some toplevel projects into an overseeing project
19:55 <@tseng> sure.. sounds like that would be a good effort.
19:55 <@iggy> merge kernel into base
19:55 <@g2boojum> pauldv: Could I ask you to take a look at the current project structure and see if there are any recommendations to be made for the next meeting?
19:56 <@Method> iggy: ?
19:56 <@pauldv> g2boojum: I'll do that
19:56 <@iggy> just saying as far as tlp reworking goes, it doesn't really make much sense for there to be a kernel tlp
19:56 <@g2boojum> pauldv: Thanks, I appreciate it.
19:57 <@iggy> just mho though
19:57 <@g2boojum> Meanwhile, I suggest we consider the current proposal doa, and move on to the next item on the agenda.  Seem fair?
19:58 <@Method> will it be brought up next time?
19:58 <@pauldv> g2boojum: yes
19:58 <@pauldv> Method: yes
19:58 <@Method> ok
19:59 <@g2boojum> The last item on today's agenda is a vote on whether or not grsec, pax, and ssp should be part of hardened or split out into a normal herd.  Jon, do you want to take this one?
19:59 <@avenj> k
19:59 <@avenj> Method: would you like to explain very briefly what grsec/pax/ssp are?
20:00 <@Method> ok
20:00 <@Method> grsecurity is a security implementation by brad spengler, it's currently being supported in hardened and includes access controls and well as a collection of miscellanious restrictions, it's also used on infrastructure and includes pax
20:01 <@Method> pax is a set of memory restrictions which we use in hardened along side all our access control systems (selinux and grsec), it is part of the PIC effort because pax utilizes pic binaries to randomize memory layouts
20:02 <@Method> ssp is involved with the PIC effort because it's also part of the compiler, it protects from memory overflows
20:02 <@Method> these are all supported under hardened currently
20:02 <@Method> avenj: ok
20:03 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v solar] by avenj
20:03 <@avenj> solar: are you there?
20:03 <@tseng> solar has asked for voice on this topic.. as grsec lead I think thats fair
20:03 <@pauldv> Method: to me it sounds very much that it should belong in hardened. Hardened is about extra security above what is provided vanilla
20:03 <@tseng> oh, he beat me.
20:04 -!- klieber [klieber@klieber.gentoo.host.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:04 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o klieber] by ChanServ
20:04 -!- cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem-gentoo.staff.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:05 <+solar> ok that was the case a few months ago. but in light of recent events with personal attacks being launched on the grsec author it's in the best interest of these efforts to break it out of the hardened herd.
20:05 <+solar> We have lost all support on that front
20:06 -!- tigger^ [~rob@tigger.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:06 <+solar> But we could keep support as long as it's not under method's direct control
20:06 <@pauldv> solar: why do you want to get grsec out of hardened. And after you answer that question, where do you want it to go?
20:06 <@drobbins> solar: from what I have seen, this problem may be the result of a lot of misunderstanding
20:06 <+solar> pauldv: simple personal attacks have no place in Gentoo 
20:06 <+solar> I can't be apart of it.
20:07 <@avenj> solar: we have already discussed that with you -- method has agreed to reform his behavior
20:07 <@drobbins> solar: sometimes, people may view other people as being clearly in the wrong, and thus view the attacks as being more of an obligation
20:07 <+solar> It's up to you guys really. If you choose to split it up then fwd progress will happen. if not things more or less will grow no futher than where they arenow.
20:08 <@drobbins> solar: maybe that is true, maybe not... I'm just saying that I think a lot of this is could be due to a huge misunderstanding
20:08 <+solar> It's a very big misunderstanding. 
20:08 <@Method> in my own defense I wrote emails in my personal role, and for a specific reason, spender was planning a malicious attack on fedora and I was trying to stifle that, in the interest of everyones security
20:08 <@pauldv> solar: from what I understand, method got notice that the author of grsec was withholding security information to the comunity (redhat/fedora in particular). method then took action by questioning that behaviour on a security list
20:08 <+solar> And it's become ugly. very ugly.
20:08 <@Method> spender returned attacks personally and it went downhill from there
20:09 <@drobbins> solar: the question is whether spender was doing that because he has malicious intent, or because he had totally no confidence in the respective devs actually fixing the exploit so had absolutely no incentive to report it
20:09 <@drobbins> solar: (to me, that's the question)
20:09 <@tseng> spender attacked personally, and Method has responded personally
20:09 <@pauldv> solar: is it right that you feel that you can fix the relationship with grsec if method stays away?
20:10 <@tseng> I believe that he sees that was unprofessional now, and will behave differently looking forward
20:10 <@Method> and now it's over, i've already told everyone involved i won't be saying/doing anything toward/about spender
20:10 <@tseng> we can discuss the issue of Full-Disclosure all day, I think that particular piece of the case is very clearl cut and spender was wrong
20:10 <@drobbins> ok
20:10 <@klieber> Method: it's hard to claim that those attacks are personal when they come from a gentoo.org address.
20:10 <@drobbins> can I just say a few things
20:10 <@drobbins> :)
20:10 <+solar> The only way I can really contine to support what I do and drive things fwd at this point is if I'm giving the freedom to make the solution it own thing. 
20:11 <@Method> klieber: thats the address i'm subscribed with, and in retrospect maybe i should have used another (although i seriously doubt it would have made a difference)
20:11 <@pauldv> I'll repeat to everyone that as a manager you cannot really speak in private, and I advise everyone to consult with the managers first, so a united front can be presented if needs be
20:11 <@drobbins> I can see both sides to this issue
20:11 <@drobbins> I think it points to a larger problem
20:11 <@drobbins> which is not specific to gentoo/method/solar/spender
20:11 <@drobbins> but I dunno
20:11 <+solar> Well no.. at this point method needs to stay out of my way.. 
20:12 <+solar> the personal attacks launched on me were totaly uncalled for.
20:12 <@pauldv> solar: the attacks on method through devrel were also over the line
20:12 <+solar> eh? 
20:12 <@avenj> since method has agreed to fix his behavior, i feel it would be best for grsec/pax/ssp to stay under hardened with the other proactive security measures and if necessary tseng or another hardened member should act as a liason between solar and method to prevent personal conflict
20:12 <@drobbins> let's please stop pointing fingers
20:12 <+solar> read the log please. http://dev.gentoo.org/~solar/.devrel.log
20:13 <@drobbins> unprofessional and personal garbage happens every day in this environment, and is only worsened by lack of personal interaction
20:13 <@tseng> solar did not involve devrel, as we've covered
20:13 <+solar> take a few mins to read that then lets continue.
20:14 <@pauldv> I agree with avenj. hardened is a toplevel project, there is no other place for grsec so the toplevel should in someway manage itself to resolve the issue
20:14 <@avenj> i also think it would be best if we would focus on the issue at hand; i've repeatedly asked solar to please bring personal conflict problems to the ombudsman, which is what the ombudsman is for
20:14 <+solar> pauldv: grsec was not supposed in hardened till I came along. 
20:15 <+solar> supported
20:15 <@tseng> the issue as I see it is that Method has acted unprofessionally as a manager
20:15 <@drobbins> I'd assume the following, based on the people involved:
20:15 <@tseng> and I think this has/can be corrected.
20:15 <+solar> it was at the core and in our core kernels.
20:15 <@klieber> avenj: the issue escalated on both sides.  it's hard to chastise one side for not using the ombudsmen when the other neglected to do the same
20:15 <@drobbins> 1) anything seen as a personal attack was probably, at the time, seen as legitimate or fair by the person who launched for whatever reason
20:15 <@drobbins> 2) anyone who went over the line and understands that they did probably feels bad about it
20:16 <@avenj> klieber: absolutely, but currently the personal problems are being brought up in public by one individual
20:16 <+solar> No not really. Claiming I'm a security risk is down right wrong. 
20:16 <@avenj> klieber: which is why i've asked solar to do it; there was no occasion to ask method to at this point
20:16 <+solar> And at this point I think you need to evalutate if method should be a manager at all
20:16 <@drobbins> solar: at this point, we should try to be ascertaining the facts and not launching more personal attacks
20:17 <+solar> There is nothing personal about that.
20:17 <+solar> leads should not launch attacks on people period.
20:18 <@drobbins> solar: in your words, he "launched attacks"
20:18 <@drobbins> solar: in his words, he saw something he perceived as unethical and wanted to distance himself from it asap
20:18 <@tseng> I believe if you search your provided logs on -managers
20:18 <@pauldv> I think we first might want to make clear what our stance is on the reason that method made an attack on spender
20:18 -!- cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem-gentoo.staff.freenode] has left #gentoo-meetings []
20:18 <@tseng> you'll find method refering to his intent to run a "smear campaign" in those or similar words
20:18 <@pauldv> my stance is that I stand behind method on that
20:19 <+solar> fine.. then a good way to distance that would be for his herd to not have to worry about it.
20:19 <@klieber> pauldv: we don't have a consistent stance on that.  I don't stand behind him at all
20:19  * g2boojum notes that if we dropped every manager who has made personal attacks in the past we would have far fewer managers.
20:19 <@klieber> pauldv: I thought there was no call/excuse for it
20:19 <@pauldv> klieber: we should discuss that
20:19 <@drobbins> klieber: here's the thing
20:19 <@drobbins> klieber: seemant agreed with method's view of events
20:20 <@seemant> I stand behind method's reasoning, not his well, methods
20:20 <@klieber> I appreciate what method's view of events are.  I simply do not agree with the way that he chose to go about his business.
20:20 <@tseng> lets not look at a single issue here where there is more
20:20 <@pauldv> seemant: me too
20:20  * dmwaters nods at seemant
20:20 <@tseng> in a single conflict with spender vs method, full-disclosure
20:20 <@tseng> some of us will agree method was "in the right"
20:20 <@tseng> not all cases are that clear
20:21 <@tseng> there are other attacks back and forth
20:21 <+solar> Morals and Etics dont belong in a software vendor. We provide software.. We are not a church
20:21 <@drobbins> solar: that's the microsoft way
20:21 <@drobbins> solar: not everyone thinks the same
20:22 <+solar> Clearly.
20:22 <@pauldv> solar: security packages are in very much based on trust. Do we trust someone who withholds information about vulerabilities? I don't (except in the contact the vendor bladibla etc. case)
20:22 <@avenj> solar: i disagree, but i also feel that we should not drop software due to what upstream does on their own. that, however, is a total irrelevancy at this point as method has stated he will not be dropping grsec
20:22 <@drobbins> solar: and if spender had a valid reason to not disclose, then let's try to understand it
20:23 <+solar> drobbins: he does.. I know his reasoning and it's kinda sad that everybody is trying to force the issue out of him. 
20:23 <@drobbins> solar: and look at the larger issue impacting the free software community, and try to fix it rather than attacking one another
20:24 <@drobbins> solar: is his reason that he's convinced that the authors of said software will not fix the exploits anyway, so he has absolutely no incentive to disclose them in the first place?
20:24 <+solar> He has stated that bugs exist in the software. He gaves hints to where to bugs exist. He can not disclose the full reasons as the flaw effects other security solutions as well.
20:25 <@dmwaters> does that mean he won't give the reasoning because there are more bugs?
20:25 <+solar> drobbins: His style and many others is to disclose the facts after the problem has been solved.
20:25 <@drobbins> solar: because the upstream authors are not fixing the known exploits
20:25 <@g2boojum> I have to go to a meeting in a couple of minutes.  The only agenda item after this one is the usual open-floor developer discussion.  I'll trust you folks to hold down the fort.
20:25 <@drobbins> solar: so that's the only good option?
20:25 <@pauldv> solar: in that case one has to disclose to the developers of said software though, not keep private with hints only
20:26 <+solar> it's not a known exploit. It's a bug in the design.. It's not really his fault that other people cant code.
20:26 <@tseng> there is a long standing debate between ES and grsec/pax
20:26 <@pauldv> tseng: ES?
20:26 <@tseng> I believe one reason for escalating an issue in ES is to force them to do things his way
20:26 <@tseng> execshield
20:26 <@Method> execshield, the software in question
20:27 -!- zhen [~zhen@zhen.developer.gentoo] has quit ["brb"]
20:28 <@drobbins> solar: ok
20:28 <@Method> anyway, solar says he doesn't disclose bugs until they are fixed, and that may be the case, but this time he said he was going to wait until fedora was released and installed on many machines and then release
20:28 <@Method> rather than releasing preemptively
20:28 <@Method> therby ensuring maximal damage
20:28 <@klieber> Method: were those his words exactly?
20:28 <@drobbins> Method: did he specifically say that he was going to do that to ensure "maximal damage"
20:28 <@Method> no
20:28 <@klieber> ok, can we stick to the facts then?
20:29 <@Method> adjectives aren't non-factual
20:29 -!- steel300 [~coxj@000c414efc85.student.iastate.edu] has quit [Client Quit]
20:29 <+solar> yeah but thats just irc talk for the uninformed. by into if you what. As we can clearly see he provides a security solution.
20:29 <@drobbins> Method: so he was going to release to cause maximal damage for what purpose?
20:29 <@Method> it doesn't take a genious to figure out that releasing after it's installed on many machines is more damaging than releasing beforehand
20:29 -!- bcowan_ [~bcowan@dialup-4.224.234.13.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:29 <@tseng> drobbins: to make his point clear
20:30 <@Method> drobbins: i have no idea, he doesn't like execsheild and feels it's inadequate
20:30 <@tseng> he has already pointed out flaws in ES that fall on deaf ears
20:30 <@klieber> Method: it could also be that he wanted to force the execshield folks to react quickly, rather than sit on their hands and not fix something.
20:30 <@drobbins> tseng: directly to the author(s)?
20:30 <@klieber> Method: so your claim of maliciouus intent is not as clear as you make it out to be
20:30 <@tseng> drobbins: in discussions with the author on debian devel list
20:31 <@Method> klieber: you don't think sending the exploit/vulnerability privately to mingo would do that? (before fedora core 2 is released)
20:31 <@klieber> Method: I don't know any of the people, so I can't say.  My point, however, is that you're making the situation worse by insinuating things that may or may not be true.
20:31 -!- jforman [jforman@jforman.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:32 <@drobbins> klieber: I don't know, I do see Method's point
20:32 <@drobbins> klieber: I also see spender's
20:32 <@Method> klieber: it's irrelavent, it's unacceptable behaviour plain and simple
20:32 <+solar> I would think that the author would/could contact him in a private mannor.
20:32 <@drobbins> I have had problems like this before
20:32 <@drobbins> when you contact an upstream author about a bug, and they simply don't care
20:32 <@drobbins> it's incredibly frustrating
20:33 <@klieber> drobbins: I do not think it is as clear-cut as method would like us to think it is.  I think he's spinning them in the most negative way possible.
20:33 <@Method> klieber: you are invested in grsecurity/spender
20:33 <@tseng> drobbins: many of the things spender goes on about arent bugs in the opinion of the author
20:33 <@drobbins> klieber: I disagree, I do not see spin
20:33 -!- bcowan [~bcowan@207.95.174.164] has quit [Nick collision from services.]
20:33 <@tseng> ES is an admittedly inferior soltuion to pax in enhancing security
20:33 <@tseng> they make compromises
20:34 <@tseng> and that is why spender continues to make a fuss about it
20:34 <+solar> drobbins: of course you do not.. Method has spent what countless hrs on the phone with you recently on this topic?
20:34 <@drobbins> here is the problem with unfixed bugs
20:34 <@drobbins> solar: no, not countless hours
20:34 <@drobbins> solar: I've spent more time talking to seemant about it on the phone than method
20:34 <@klieber> drobbins: ok, then we disagree.  I see all sorts of spin
20:34 <@drobbins> klieber: when you say "spin" you are saying that you see purposeful manipulation of the facts
20:35 <@drobbins> klieber: that is how I interpret it
20:35 <+solar> Anyway.. There is a clear conflict of interest here with Method vs spender.
20:35 <@drobbins> the method vs. spender issue is really a distraction to the main issue
20:35 <@avenj> if method has agreed to reform his behavior and continue supporting grsec, does it matter?
20:35 <+solar> whats the main issue as you see it?
20:35 <@drobbins> which is why linux users continually end up being the QA/testing ground for software that is buggy
20:36 <@drobbins> and suffer because of it
20:36 <@drobbins> which I am sure both spender and method are concerned about
20:36 <@drobbins> the question really is their different views on the best way to solve it (I think)
20:36 <+solar> avenj: umm yeah cuz at this point there have been personal attacks launch on me. How can I be apart of a team where I don't respect my lead or my lead does not respct me.
20:36 <@klieber> sure -- that I agree with
20:36 <+solar> It clearly wont work.
20:37 <@drobbins> solar: ok
20:37 <@avenj> solar: i was referring to the issue of whether or not spender has good intentions
20:38 <+solar> avenj: I could care less what his intentions are as long as he provides a good security solution. which he always has.
20:38 <@drobbins> spender may have "good" intentions in that he hopes a big ES vulnerability will cause some kind of systemic change in rh's approach to security that will be beneficial to users long term
20:38 <@pauldv> solar: do you audit his patch or do you take it partly upon faith? If you take upon faith it is very important on whether spender is to be trusted
20:38 <@drobbins> method has "good" intentions in that he wants everything possible to be done to avoid any damage to users via this ES vuln and not have them (and maybe the reputation of Linux) pay the price for this change in behavior
20:38 <@spyderous> back, btw.
20:39 <@drobbins> ?
20:39 <@drobbins> spyderous: hiya
20:39 <+solar> pauldv: yes I sure do.. I was coding these same types of patches back in the 2.2.x days. 
20:40 <@drobbins> both method and spender are trying to make changes to a model that does not seem to be very responsive to the security needs of users
20:40 <@drobbins> and I could see how each person could have very strong opinions about their approach
20:41 <@drobbins> the problem is, neither person is really in a position to fix these kinds of systemic problems :)
20:41 <@drobbins> or :/ rather
20:41 -!- Cretin [~saj@82-45-234-134.cable.ubr02.enfi.blueyonder.co.uk] has quit [Client Quit]
20:41 <@drobbins> Method: what do you think about how I've laid it out here
20:41 <@Method> it's fine
20:42 <@drobbins> solar: what do you think about how I've described the problem
20:43 <+solar> gimme a sec.. this is kinda of a heated topic I need to re read whats been said.
20:43 <@drobbins> ok
20:45 <+solar> ok which part do you want me to comment on? you have made many comments.. Some of which I agree with and some I don't
20:45 <@drobbins> solar: just that Method and spender are operating from two different perspsectives to try to solve the same problem
20:45 <+solar> I don't think they are trying to solve the same problem at all.
20:46 <@drobbins> how is that?
20:46 <+solar> To be honest 100% I feel spender is motivated by trying to provide a secuirty solution.. where method I feel has other motivations. 
20:47 <@pauldv> guys: I'm going to sleep (I'm against moving grsec out of hardened, however I'm not opposed to creating some special status of grsec within hardened where method would have no direct control over it)
20:47 <+solar> I can lay them out here but it's going to upset a few of you.
20:47 <+solar> your call
20:47 <@dmwaters> pauldv: night night
20:47 <@drobbins> pauldv: ok
20:47 <@pvdabeel> and if you disregard the personal issues you have with method?
20:47 <@tseng> cya pauldv
20:47 -!- pauldv is now known as pauldv|away
20:47 -!- beejay_ [~benni@beejay.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:48 <@drobbins> solar: ok, so lay them out
20:49 -!- zhen [~zhen@zhen.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:49 <+solar> method do you mind if I share my concens ?
20:49 <@drobbins> solar: just try to be fair
20:50 <@Method> go for it
20:50 <@Method> i'm interested myself
20:50 -!- Stuart [~stuart@Stuart.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:50 <+solar> ok.. Method and many of you are on the board. You work on thing that make money.. I don't. Your in this in my opinion to benifit your personal lives.
20:51 <+solar> be that via book sales or otherwise.
20:51 <@Method> thats funny because i've heard you refer to hardened as your 'bread and butter' many times
20:51 <@Method> you are working on embedded to make money
20:51 <@drobbins> um
20:51 <@drobbins> Method: hold off for a sec
20:52 <@Method> ok
20:52 <@drobbins> solar: and without commenting on this assertion, how does this relate to the issue at hand?
20:52 <+solar> Well it's in my opinion that method now refuses to let it go because he needs it for the security chapters.
20:53 <+solar> which sorry I also don't want to be apart of. 
20:53 <+solar> not unless those profits are going back into gentoo which clearly they wont be.
20:53 <@pvdabeel> solar: would you be a better book writer?
20:53 <@Method> solar: you are making yourself into an incredible hipocrit here
20:53 <@Method> solar: clearly they won't be?
20:53 <@drobbins> Method: hold off please
20:53 <@Method> solar: are you aware that i've
20:53 <@Method> what a load
20:53 <@Method> he has no clue what he's talking about
20:53 <@Method> talk about putting spin
20:53 <+solar> you asked... I warned you it's going to upset you.
20:53 <@dmwaters> method, please
20:54 <@Method> i'm not upset, you are just spouting FUD, just like always
20:54 <@drobbins> solar: maybe I'm the best person to answer your questions/assertions
20:54 <@Method> welcome to my world everyone
20:54 <@drobbins> solar: becuase they are very intriguing, and I'm not just saying that
20:54 <@drobbins> my hope for gentoo is that everyone can make money from it
20:54 <@drobbins> also
20:54 <+solar> drobbins: i have to be honest with you now cuz this needs to be put on the table. 
20:55 <@drobbins> solar: sure and I appreciate it, and I'm going to give you my honest answer
20:55 <+solar> your looking at a nasty fork soon if you don't get moving faster on the NFP thing ;/
20:55 <+solar> I'll help in anyway I can. 
20:55 -!- beejay [~benni@beejay.developer.gentoo] has quit [Client Quit]
20:55 <@drobbins> sigh 
20:55 <@drobbins> ok
20:55 <+solar> to to make Gentoo becomea NFP thing.
20:56 <@drobbins> well where should I start
20:56 <+solar> devs (I wont name names) have been contacting me personaly due to recent events
20:56 <+solar> are growing pretty unhappy with the way your handing things
20:56 <@drobbins> ok
20:56 <@drobbins> well
20:56 <@spyderous> solar: could you let him finish responding
20:56 <@tseng> I dont like the threat aspect of that
20:57 <+solar> I don't know why they contact me either.. I'd like to see gentoo go NFP.. but it's not my battle.
20:57 <@drobbins> it will probably make my reply seem insincere, as you might think I'm saying this to avoid a fork
20:57 <@drobbins> I decided several weeks ago
20:57 <@drobbins> that linux has some serious sustainability problems
20:58 <@drobbins> I could spend the next hour talking about my views on this, maybe I should (would make for an intersting GWN next week :)
20:58 <@drobbins> my view is, I like coding things and like many people would like to do this full-time
20:58 <@drobbins> however
20:58 <@drobbins> I now get funded full-time to work on gentoo
20:58 <@drobbins> and before I got funded, I was anxious
20:58 <@drobbins> because I didn't have time to do the stuff I needed to do to get gentoo to the next level
20:59 <@drobbins> then I got funded, and I found myself just being frustrated instead
20:59 <@drobbins> because I had the time to tell people what needed to get done, but they didn't have time to do it
20:59 <@drobbins> because only I was getting funded
20:59 <@drobbins> so I came to the conclusion that if the model doesn't work for everyone, it works for no one
20:59 <@drobbins> I am not interested in mooching off of gentoo
21:00 <@drobbins> I have analyzed the resource constraint problem quite exhaustively over the last month
21:00 <@drobbins> it's inherent in the current distribution model
21:01 <@drobbins> again, I could type for the next hour on this
21:01 <@drobbins> I don't know if this is the right forum to go into this
21:01 <@drobbins> I guess I could just say that if I don't see something as sustainable, I have no interst in participating
21:01 <@drobbins> that applies to gentoo too
21:02 <@drobbins> it needs to work for *everyone*
21:02 <@drobbins> that has been my goal from the beginning
21:02 <@drobbins> I am *not* interested in being one of the few who can work on linuxy stuff full-time
21:02 <@drobbins> I don't want to be one of the elites
21:03 <@drobbins> I want the free software community to have a viable economic model that everyone can participate in
21:03 <@drobbins> right now
21:03 <@drobbins> we have very large corporations basically funding linux and free software
21:03 <@drobbins> this model doesn't work because these large corporations are ultimately interested in advancing themselves, not free software
21:04 <@drobbins> so for example
21:04 <@drobbins> Microsoft spends 6.8 Billion USD on R&D each year I believe
21:04 <@drobbins> IBM claimed to put 1 Billion USD into Linux
21:04 <@drobbins> however, I wonder how much of this was spent on superbowl commercials
21:04 <@drobbins> ie how much was really R+D
21:05 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v tgall_foo] by drobbins
21:06 <@drobbins> tgall_foo wanted to comment as an IBM person
21:06 <+tgall_foo> thanks ...  as a member of the IBM Linux Technology Center, the $1 billion investment was for across the whole landscape so marketing etc etc ... not just development and it was NOT $1 billion just for one year
21:06 <@drobbins> and I'm not trying to bash IBM, it's my opinion that Linux would be close to if not dead without IBM's help
21:07  * tgall_foo wasn't taking it as a bash.. just thought I'd point out that information as it does apply to the point in question
21:07 <@drobbins> tgall_foo: so an ongoing investment in Linux
21:07 <+tgall_foo> and porting existing products to linux, yadda yadda
21:07 <@drobbins> ok
21:07 <@drobbins> ok
21:07 <@drobbins> then we have Sun
21:07 <@drobbins> who has a next-gen desktop called looking glass
21:07 <@drobbins> it's built on Java
21:07 <@drobbins> do you want a java desktop?
21:08 <@tseng> no thanks.
21:08 <@drobbins> the point is here that Sun does its own internal R&D first, and then gives left overs to Linux
21:08 <@drobbins> likewise IBM is going to first ensure that its own internal R&D is fully funded
21:08 <@drobbins> and we really can't blame them for doing this
21:09 <@drobbins> but what is going to happen because of this is that most future advances in free software are going to be the result of R&D by large corporations
21:09 <@drobbins> and may not reflect the desire of the free software community itself
21:09 <@drobbins> we also have another problem
21:09 <@drobbins> when I started the gentoo store
21:09 <@drobbins> um
21:09 <@drobbins> let me pause
21:09 <@drobbins> I'm assuming that people want me to continue talking about this stuff?
21:10 <@drobbins> yes/no?
21:10 <@klieber> sure
21:10 <@spyderous> is it going somewhere?
21:10 <@drobbins> yes but it may take 20 more minutes of ranting
21:10 -!- cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem-gentoo.staff.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
21:10 <@klieber> well, I'm most interested in hearing about the NFP efforts for gentoo.
21:10 <+solar> I think you should continue as this is something that alot of devs want to know about.
21:10 <@drobbins> klieber: it will end up there
21:10 <@drobbins> ok
21:10 <@tseng> is there a final point that would could understand
21:10 <@avenj> i'm intrigued
21:10 <@drobbins> yes I'll get to it in 15 mins
21:10 <@tseng> or do we ahve to go through the complete journey to understand?
21:10 <@tseng> ok.
21:11 <@drobbins> yes it's one of those journey things
21:11 <@drobbins> when I started the store I obviously said "I'm going to use Gentoo to do everything, because I love it"
21:11 <@drobbins> then I started using gentoo for the store
21:11 <@drobbins> and it turned into somewhat of a nightmare
21:11 <@drobbins> mainly related to cd burning
21:11 <@drobbins> here's what happened. I tested cd burning over firewire using 2.6.0-test10 and it worked
21:11 <@drobbins> so I based the store on firewire burning
21:12 <@drobbins> then -test11 came out and firewire burning *stopped* working
21:12 <@drobbins> and I had to start back-porting drivers from test10 to keep making cds
21:12 <@drobbins> this went on thru 2.6.3
21:12 <@drobbins> like a long time
21:12  * pvdabeel remembers a working livecd/kernel to stop working because of an automated apple firmware update
21:12 <@drobbins> in that period, I tried diagnosing the problem myself
21:13 <@drobbins> then I reported bugs to sf.net (the ieee1394 page)
21:13 <@drobbins> no reply
21:13 <@drobbins> then I emailed the firewire lead directly
21:13 <@drobbins> no reply
21:13 <@drobbins> then I tracked him down in his irc channel and spent a couple of weeks waiting for him to reply to my queries
21:13 <@drobbins> he wasn't so helpful
21:14 <@drobbins> offered to send him hardware, he wasn't interested
21:14 <@drobbins> posted to lkml
21:14 <@drobbins> new kernel seemed to work, then started messing up again
21:14 <@drobbins> his reply was "it works for everyone else"
21:14 <@drobbins> I contacted many firewire users
21:15 <@drobbins> or ex-users I should say
21:15 <@drobbins> who told me that they don't use firewire because it doesn't work
21:15 <@drobbins> I asked them if they filed a bug, and they said "no"
21:15 <@drobbins> so we have a major component of the linux kernel not working for a lot of people
21:15 <@drobbins> and I probably spent 100 hours of my time and several hundred dollars of hardware trying to deal with this problem
21:16 <@drobbins> eventually I burnt out and gave up and now I burn cds under windows xp unfortunately
21:16 <@drobbins> I got angry at the firewire guy
21:16 <@drobbins> and he said (paraphrasing) "why are you being a jerk? I have a day job, I do work for debian, for project x, y, z."
21:17 <@drobbins> so basically
21:17 <@drobbins> in so many words, he was doing the best he could under the circumstances
21:17 <@drobbins> he probably wasn't interested in more hardware because he doesn't have time to test on more than the 5 firewire devices he currently owns
21:18 <@drobbins> after going through this arduous experience, I did not have high hopes for the future of linux
21:18 <@drobbins> great for geeks, but not something I could base a very small business upon
21:18 <@drobbins> and I'm obviously the head of the project
21:19 <@drobbins> it's at this point I started to really take a hard look at how this is supposed to work
21:19 <+tgall_foo> OTOH there is where distributions tend to come in and either fix it or mark it as unsupported (by this I mean the commercial types, not debian)
21:19 <@drobbins> tgall_foo: yes, the thing is that if the firewire lead had the time to test on my hardware (which wasn't exactly rare) he probably could have it fixed in 1 hr
21:20 <@drobbins> he expected me to learn firewire internals in order to send a bug to him
21:20 <@drobbins> not something I am capable of
21:20 <@drobbins> so I think linux is lacking a lot of things
21:20 <@drobbins> two things I would like to point out
21:20 <@drobbins> this firewire developer had a lack of *resources*
21:21 <@drobbins> he had to hold down a full-time job and work on firewire in his spare time
21:21 <@drobbins> he had other commitments, a family
21:21 <@drobbins> that's why I said earlier that if the model doesn't work for _everyone_, it works for no one
21:21 <@drobbins> also
21:21 <@drobbins> he has a lack of *incentive*
21:21 <@drobbins> he probably started the firewire project with a great amount of energy
21:21 <@drobbins> but working with too few resources over time probably curbed his enthusiasm
21:22 <@drobbins> and now he's not even interested in getting new hardware for testing
21:22 <@dmwaters> that happens to a lot of people
21:22 <@drobbins> what's his incentive? to waste more of his free time?
21:22 <+tgall_foo> yeah ... sadly it happens
21:22 <@drobbins> yes
21:22 <@drobbins> it's *the* huge problem that exists at the moment
21:22 <@drobbins> then
21:22 <@drobbins> we have companies like Red Hat (and IBM) presumably making money from free software
21:23 <@drobbins> the money is not going back to the people who need it
21:23 -!- pebenito [~pebenito@pebenito.developer.gentoo] has left #gentoo-meetings []
21:23 <@drobbins> part of the problem is that it takes a long time and a lot of knowledge to identify where the money is needed
21:23 <@drobbins> the other is that these companies are ultimately focused on their own sustainability, not that of linux
21:23 <@drobbins> or free software
21:23 <@drobbins> and that, frankly, is to be expected (I wouldn't demonize them for doing this)
21:24 <@drobbins> I thoguth about this a lot
21:24 <@drobbins> and decided that I don't want to work at IBM or Red Hat in 2 years
21:24 <@drobbins> and I know that many of you do not
21:24 <@drobbins> that we enjoy our independence
21:25 <@drobbins> but as long as we are dependent on external resources, we are not in control of our destiny
21:25 <@drobbins> so until I found a decent model, I was planning on leaving gentoo
21:25 <@drobbins> to be blunt
21:25 <@drobbins> and I still plan on leaving gentoo I think
21:25 <@drobbins> hrm, phone :)
21:26 <@drobbins> wife
21:26 <+tgall_foo> umm  I think you might be misunderstand what large companies look to linux for and why we got into the world of linux in the first place
21:26 <@drobbins> the thing is
21:26 <@drobbins> tgall_foo: well then explain
21:27 <+tgall_foo> linux is another technology area to invest in...  it's aother way to sell hardware, to sell software, to sell consulting
21:27 <@drobbins> yes
21:27 <+tgall_foo> BUT success of any company in the linux market is certainly dependant on the community from which it sprang
21:27 <@drobbins> indeed
21:27 <+tgall_foo> if the community rots then linux is doomed
21:28 <@drobbins> yes
21:28 <+tgall_foo> and the companies will leave as well
21:28 <@drobbins> and what I am saying is that if nothing is done, the community will implode in (my estimate) 12-36 months
21:28 <+tgall_foo> but least from where I'm sitting I don't see that happening
21:28 <@drobbins> like soon
21:28 <@drobbins> I think it will
21:28 <@drobbins> but I think something can be done about it
21:28 <@drobbins> otherwise I wouldn't tell you guys and get you depressed
21:28 <+tgall_foo> or at least send drugs!
21:29 <@drobbins> we desperately our own internal economic engine to fund things like r&d
21:29 <@drobbins> the distribution model is extremely unhealthy for free software
21:29 <+tgall_foo> r&d for gentoo or open software in general?
21:29 <@drobbins> what happened with xfree86 was very damaging
21:29 <@drobbins> tgall_foo: both
21:29 <@drobbins> community-driven
21:30 <@drobbins> I don't know why the xfree86 team did what they did for sure, but I have a fairly good guess
21:30 <+tgall_foo> I'm not sure that $$$ is the only thing that drives the open source development engine
21:30 <@drobbins> let me finish :)
21:30 <+tgall_foo> granted not having access to hardware can be a problem for maintainers / distros ...  but that's always been the case
21:30 <@spyderous> because they didn't want their work used by other people pretending it's theirs
21:30 <@drobbins> ok
21:31 <@drobbins> no one likes the red hat model to fund free software
21:31 <@drobbins> as far as I can tell
21:31 <@drobbins> and they've changed their licensing to be just like microsoft's, but 1/4 the price
21:31 <@drobbins> but at least when you pay microsoft, the money you give them supports the people actually writing the software
21:31 <@drobbins> it gives them full-time jobs, benefits
21:32 <@drobbins> when your money does to red hat, does it give the free software community this? nope
21:32 <+tgall_foo> OTOH, are they the only ones that should be writing that software ;-)
21:32 <@drobbins> my point is that it is not long-term sustainable
21:33 <@drobbins> and I was planning to give up because of it
21:33 <@spyderous> perhaps you should talk to a professional economist rather than coming to your own conclusions on that =)
21:33 <@drobbins> so I hope that clears up some people who were wondering if I wanted to mooch off the project
21:33 <@drobbins> spyderous: I've lived it
21:33 <+tgall_foo> if the only way to product software is to pay for it, then yes you're exactly right, then the whole computing world is back to a MS model, you pay for software and you don't get the source ...  and lord help us all if it comes to that
21:33 <@drobbins> spyderous: I don't need to talk to anybody. Sorry if that sounds arrogant
21:34 <@drobbins> we've all lived it
21:34 <@drobbins> ok
21:34 <@drobbins> so here is the solution I'm looking to set up
21:34 <@drobbins> I think we need to move to a cooperative model
21:34 <@drobbins> like a "coop"
21:34 <@drobbins> a member-owned and operated entity that funds free software development
21:35 <@drobbins> to become a member, you buy a membership for $50
21:35 <@drobbins> that gets you some non-transferrable stock in the coop and the right to vote to elect its leadership team
21:36 <@drobbins> the $50 multiplied goes towards creating a modest but significant internal budget to fund projects
21:36 <@drobbins> and the plan is not only to fund gentoo, but the parts that make up gentoo
21:36 <@drobbins> (at least that's my plan)
21:36 <@drobbins> because gentoo is only as good as the sum of its parts
21:36 <@drobbins> and the primary role of gentoo is that of _integrators_
21:36 <@drobbins> we shouldn't be adding value to software really
21:37 <@drobbins> if the x server developers don't have resources to fix their bugs, we should not try to fix their bugs for them
21:37 <@drobbins> instead, we should try to get them the resources they need to fix their own bugs
21:37 <@drobbins> and help give them an incentive to fix bugs by supporting them
21:37 <@Method> isn't the manpower to fix bugs a resource we can provide?
21:37 <@drobbins> and letting them know that there are a bunch of organized people who are care about their software
21:37 <@drobbins> yes it is
21:38 <@drobbins> we should also certainly help that way
21:38 <@drobbins> I think one of the tragedies of xfree86 was that it looks like the main devs didn't have the resources or incentive to do a good job
21:38 <@klieber> drobbins: are you saying that Gentoo will be moving to this model instead of the co-op model?  Or is that project going to be separate from Gentoo?
21:38 <@drobbins> and their cry for help was to change their license to get some "Credit" for their work, and it ended up basically killing the project
21:39 <@klieber> s/instead of co-op/instead of NFP/
21:39 <@drobbins> klieber: rephrase please
21:39 <@drobbins> klieber: a not-for-profit coop
21:40 <@drobbins> I htink it's important to encourage gentoo users to support and also to vote on what projects should get supported
21:40  * spyderous thinks winex
21:40 <@drobbins> it helps to create a tighter loop of accountability between user of software and developer of software
21:40 <@klieber> is there any choice in this?  or this is the road that's been chosen.
21:40  * tgall_foo has to go ...  
21:40 -!- tgall_foo [~tgall@rchp4.rochester.ibm.com] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Client Exiting"]
21:40 <@drobbins> without that loop of accountability, projects implode before they get the proper resources to support their ever-growing user community
21:42 <@Method> ?
21:42 <@drobbins> Method: they either implode or get resource starved and plod along at too slow a pace
21:42 <@Method> (@klieber) is there any choice in this? or this is the road that's been chosen.
21:43 <@drobbins> klieber: well the nfp aspect has been chosen obviously
21:43 <@drobbins> please note
21:43 <@drobbins> this coop will be owned by its members
21:43 <@drobbins> I will not be leading it
21:43 <+solar> I fail to understand how any of the above helps us dish out ebuilds for people to use. Can you please set an exact date when gentoo will become a NFP entity
21:43 <@drobbins> the leadership will be elected
21:44 <@drobbins> solar: I am going to get the groundwork laid this month (April)
21:44 <@drobbins> solar: dishing out ebuilds is not the problem. keeping linux competitive with microsoft is the problem
21:44 <@Method> ok, are we done with the nfp discussion? i'd like a chance to defend myself against solar's defamation then we can vote
21:45 <@klieber> Method: no, we're not
21:45 <@drobbins> not yet
21:45 <@Method> ok
21:45 <@drobbins> klieber: do you have some questions?
21:46 <@drobbins> ok, so the leadership will be elected by the members
21:46 <@klieber> statemnts, rather.  i'd like to see this coop project be separate from gentoo
21:46 <@drobbins> in a sense it will be
21:46 <@drobbins> the angle I plan on taking is to have gentoo be the first supported project
21:46 <@klieber> well, i'd like to see it be completely separate.  not just in a sense
21:46 <@drobbins> why is that?
21:48 <@klieber> why shouldn't it be?
21:48 <@klieber> I'd like to see gentoo remain separate from any outside influences, actually
21:48 <@Method> the nfp or whatever dictates the behaviour of 'gentoo the distro' doesn' it?
21:48 <@klieber> and this coop would be an outside influence
21:48 <@Method> what role does the nfp/coop have at all if it's totally seperate?
21:48 <@drobbins> klieber: the coop would consist of gentoo users
21:49 <@klieber> initially, yes.
21:49 <@drobbins> klieber: gentoo needs to be accountable to its users
21:49 <@pvdabeel> paying users :-)
21:49 <@klieber> and that's fine
21:49 <+solar> drobbins: but would that prevent gentoo from not becoming a NFP say like next week?
21:49 <@klieber> but you're talking about making this co-op broader, as I understand it
21:50 <@drobbins> solar: it gets a bit more complex and I'll get into that in a bit
21:51 <@drobbins> yes, I guess I'll continue
21:51 <@tseng> please, get everything out there.
21:51 <@avenj> i need to go for a bit -- if we end up voting on the split before i return, i vote no
21:51 <@avenj> back in 25-30
21:51 <@drobbins> ok
21:52 <@tseng> many of us appreciate openness
21:52 <@drobbins> checking if I can talk about it, as there's some stuff currently in the formative stages
21:52 <@drobbins> ok
21:52 <@drobbins> cshields has just let me know that people think I am suggesting we charge for gentoo
21:52 <@drobbins> that is *not* what this is about
21:52 <@drobbins> gentoo is going to be free
21:53 <@drobbins> if you want to participate in charting the future of gentoo, you can become a member and participate in voting, etc.
21:53 <@drobbins> and membership is going to be encouraged but never a requirement
21:53 <@drobbins> it's going to be encouraged as a good thing to do (tm) -- support the community, let your voice be heard, etc.
21:54 <@drobbins> ok
21:54 <@spyderous> as donating to gentoo is now.
21:54 <@drobbins> yes, except with membership you are an actual part owner of gentoo
21:54 <@drobbins> and you get to actually have a vote
21:54 <+solar> drobbins: Could you give us a firm commitment for a date on the NFP?
21:54 <@drobbins> so it's more open
21:55 <@drobbins> solar: I am planning on getting the groundwork laid this month (April)
21:55 <@drobbins> but please let me continue
21:55 <@drobbins> there are a lot of universities interested in Gentoo
21:56 <@drobbins> and they are interested in standing behind a community-based distribution rather than a company-backed distribution
21:56 <@drobbins> so we are in the formative stages of establishing a consortium/cooperative of universities (separate from the afore-mentioned coop) that would also actively fund Gentoo
21:57 <@drobbins> with Red Hat's new licensing model, a large university could pay, say....
21:58 <@drobbins> generally $250K to Red Hat for a site license is what I hear rumored
21:59 <@drobbins> quite a few universities seem intersted in paying, say, $50K instead to a community-based organization that properly distributes funds to people actually doing the work
21:59 <@drobbins> so that is the aspect that is being organized right now
21:59 <@tseng> bbiab..
22:00 <@pvdabeel> what do these universities gain from paying a community if the software is available for free? 
22:00 <@drobbins> and why it wouldn't be good to just immediately set up one NFP. I need to get both entities set up with clear arrangements for how funding will go
22:00 <@klieber> pvdabeel: they fund active development and presumably have some say in where that development goes
22:00 <@drobbins> yes
22:01 <@klieber> drobbins: why does setting up a NFP for gentoo need to wait until the coop NFP is set up/
22:01 <@klieber> ?
22:01 <@drobbins> pvdabeel: they keep it moving forward and have a voice. they can negotiate to get work done that needs to get done
22:01 <@klieber> can't you set up the gentoo one now and then work on the coop?
22:01 <@drobbins> klieber: I haven't yet looked at the possibility of setting up the 2 as separate entities
22:01 <@drobbins> klieber: the question always was how to get the NFP funded
22:01 <+solar> I'd rather see them save there money and donate devs/students to us. If they have hardware then they can keep it and allow us to use it. OSU/IU does this now.. And it works really great.
22:01 <@klieber> I would rather see them be separate
22:01 <@pvdabeel> why wouldn't the 'direction in where that development goes' not be beneficial for a university?
22:02 <@drobbins> klieber: it's something I'll ask my lawyer about definitely, I had not considered it
22:02 <@drobbins> solar: see they will do that too
22:02 <@klieber> drobbins: that way, gentoo can maintain control over where it wants to go. 
22:02 <@klieber> it can participate in this coop or not, based on what the users of gentoo want
22:02 <@drobbins> solar: what I want to encourage is the universities to cooperate on the work that their full-time staff is doing, so that there is little or no duplication of effort
22:03 <@drobbins> solar: and so they can use each other for support when needed
22:03 <@klieber> if they're all part of one coop, the users of gentoo are marginalized in the face of the other projects
22:03 <@klieber> and the best interests of gentoo are not served
22:03 <@drobbins> klieber: what I am proposing to my lawyer is that there are 2 coops, higher ed and then the community-based coop
22:03 <@drobbins> right
22:03 <@drobbins> it could be that 3 coops would be best
22:03 -!- pYrania [~pyrania@pYrania.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
22:04 <@klieber> drobbins: I'm saying gentoo should be completely separate from any outside entities.
22:04 <@drobbins> klieber: I do agree with you there
22:04 <@drobbins> klieber: ok
22:04 <@drobbins> klieber: for the same reason why you wouldn't want gentoo under the higher-ed coop, it would be limited by the needs of higher ed
22:04 <@klieber> then it's up to the gentoo users on what they want to join/not join
22:04 <@klieber> exactly
22:05 <@drobbins> klieber: I would prefer to set them up and have funding set up for the entities with each sponsoring the other
22:05 <@klieber> drobbins: why shouldn't it be up to the gentoo users , though?
22:06 <@pvdabeel> I have the impression that the roadmap for NFP still needs some thoughts.  
22:06 <@klieber> if gentoo exists as a separate NFP entity, they can decide what they want to do.
22:06 <@drobbins> if the gentoo users decide they do not want the significant funding from higher ed that is being arranged, then they can choose to sever that relationship
22:06 <@drobbins> but I'd like to get this thing started on the right foot
22:06 <@drobbins> it would be
22:06 <@spyderous> any chance we could set up a list for further nfp discussion
22:07 <@pvdabeel> such a public list would be appreciated yes
22:07 <@drobbins> klieber: these are the things that are being figured out atm
22:07 <@drobbins> once they are figured out, I will have it typed up in XML for review before these entities are actually created
22:07 -!- jrinkovs [~jrinkovs@jrinkovs.developer.gentoo] has quit [Client Quit]
22:08 <@spyderous> back in a minute.
22:08 <@drobbins> it's a very tricky process as universities are talking amongnst themselves about gentoo and making their own internal plans
22:08 <@klieber> I don't see the need to alter/delay what is already planned for gentoo.  if this funding coop gets set up down the road, they can come to gentoo and offer their funding to gentoo at which point the gentoo NFP can decide what they want
22:09 <@klieber> and I'd really be dismayed to see the gentoo NFP be delayed any further than it already has
22:09 -!- spyderous [~spyderous@spyderous.developer.gentoo] has quit ["Client exiting"]
22:10 <@drobbins> klieber: I can look into setting up a gentoo-only coop first
22:10 <@pvdabeel> It is clear that public collaborative brainstorming about the NFP might lead to good things. I can't afford to spend more time here (but I would to contribute to a discussion). Can this discussion be continued on a public mailinglist, to ensure everybody can pose questions, make remarks etc? Open public discussion should give people an idea about what NFP things drobbins has actually been working for the last months.
22:10 <@tseng> I think if we had a poll, most of us dont see an immediate need for any coop
22:11 -!- spyderous [~spyderous@spyderous.developer.gentoo] has joined #gentoo-meetings
22:11 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o spyderous] by ChanServ
22:11 <@tseng> if we are interested in the coop program at all
22:11 <@tseng> what we do want is to see Gentoo established as an NFP once and for all
22:11 <@drobbins> tseng: I would like to see the work I have done to be able to continue
22:11 <@tseng> that can be sponsored by an external coop, or anyone else
22:11 <@tseng> certainly understandable.
22:12 <@drobbins> tseng: I have an interest in seeing it be funded, I feel I have a responsibility to those involved to ensure this happens
22:12 <@tseng> I do not think that Gentoo is near extinction by any means
22:12 <@dmwaters> I'm gonna need to go soon...
22:12 <@drobbins> avenj already voted no, so we didn't get a "yay"
22:12 <@drobbins> (unaniumous voting)
22:13 <@drobbins> dmwaters: if that's what you were asking about
22:13 <@Method> unaniumous?
22:13 <@dmwaters> drobbins: trying to figure out what's going on in terms of this voting thing, I've got to go fill out student lone stuff for next fall
22:14 <@tseng> drobbins: If I may make a request, on behalf of myself and others, it would be wonderful if we could get the NFP out of the way as soon as possible
22:14  * dmwaters nods at tseng 
22:14 <@drobbins> tseng: and after the NFP is set up what then?
22:14 <@tseng> the NFP by itself opens us to new possibilities in funding
22:14 <@pvdabeel> gentlemen, can we please continue this discussion in another forum. I doubt that we can answer all questions about NFP on this meeting. This was not an agenda idem.
22:14 <@drobbins> tseng: you don't get it
22:14 <@tseng> also, you will then be able to move onto creating your coop
22:14 <@drobbins> tseng: looking for pure external funding will kill free software
22:15 <@avenj> back
22:15 <@klieber> drobbins: you're saying gentoo needs to be accountable to its users.  Well, then let them decide what they want to do here.
22:15 <@tseng> well
22:15 <@klieber> drobbins: don't decide for them
22:15 <@tseng> did you see the matrix drobbins ?
22:15 <@drobbins> klieber: that's a catch-22
22:15 -!- dmwaters [dmwaters@dmwaters-gentoo.staff.freenode] has left #gentoo-meetings ["need to go, sorry."]
22:15 <@drobbins> klieber: a coop allows gentoo to be accountable to its users
22:15 <@tseng> you'll remember morpheus's speech :)
22:15 <@tseng> "we are still here"
22:15 <@klieber> drobbins: not if you set up the NFP.  then it's up to them what they want to do
22:15 <@drobbins> klieber: the current set-up does not
22:15 <@tseng> and we arent going anywhere
22:16 <@drobbins> klieber: the NFP doesn't guarantee accountability
22:16 <@tseng> there is no catostrophic event coming to suck the lif force from volunteer driven open source projects
22:16 <@avenj> i voted no on the grsec split, not anything to do with the nfp, just to be clear
22:16 <@tseng> we will continue with or without funding
22:16 <@drobbins> avenj: right
22:17 <@tseng> however, funding is very helpful, and you have what sounds like a good idea to generate some financial interest in open source
22:17 <@drobbins> klieber: the coop is a proven model that creates accountablity
22:17 <@seemant> what stops microsoft from paying 500,000 to get a half million votes?
22:17 <@tseng> anyway as a person with a vote in Gentoo aquired by working on it
22:17 <@pvdabeel> Is this still the same meeting?
22:18 <@tseng> I want an NFP first.
22:18 <@drobbins> seemant: a coop only lets each member have a single vote, regardless of how many shares they buy
22:18 <@klieber> drobbins: microsoft employes some 60,000 people
22:18 <@klieber> so there's 60,000 votes
22:18 <@drobbins> that would be great for gentoo
22:18 <@drobbins> because
22:18 <@klieber> no, it wouldn't
22:18 <@drobbins> then we'd get every gentoo user becoming a coop member to counteract that :)
22:19 <@drobbins> we have more than 60,000 users
22:19 <@drobbins> and we'd have $300K USD from Microsoft to fund development
22:19 <@klieber> if you're suggesting that ballot stuffing isn't an issue, I think you're really deluding yourself
22:19 <@drobbins> klieber: it's less of an issue than having no accountability
22:19 <@klieber> which is another reason gentoo needs to be separate from this
22:20 <@seemant> kurt's correct, gentoo + co-op need to be separate entities
22:20 <@tseng> I dont like this idea:
22:20 -!- pvdabeel changed the topic of #gentoo-meetings to: meeting marathon
22:20 <@tseng> I spend my time on a daily basis to improve gentoo
22:20 <@tseng> now, someone who I just helped do his first install
22:21 <@tseng> can pay $50 and have an equal vote
22:21 <@tseng> does that make sense?
22:21 <@drobbins> it dependes if you care about new users or not
22:21 <@drobbins> if you don't give a damn about said user, then it makes no sense
22:21 <@seemant> better yet, let microsoft buy a vote for each of its employees
22:21 <@tseng> I certainly do
22:21 <@tseng> but I believe I understand technical issues better
22:22 <@tseng> and also deserve more of a vote
22:22 <@tseng> ive give more in, see
22:22 <@drobbins> tseng: they will elect leadership, not make technical decisions
22:22 <@drobbins> tseng: the leadership and the devs make the technical decisions, but there is an accountability between the users of the software and the people making it
22:22 <@tseng> alright...
22:23 <@drobbins> seemant: which is worse
22:23 <@klieber> that accountability is intrinsically there regardless.
22:23 <@drobbins> seemant: the potential threat of microsoft having every one of its 60,000 employees become a member of the coop
22:23 <@klieber> if we don't do what our users want, the users leave to other distros
22:23 <@drobbins> seemant: or have another key project like xfree86 implode due to lack of support
22:23 <@klieber> so this whole idea of "must have accountability" is largely moot.  it's already there
22:24 <@seemant> drobbins: here's the *worst* this co-op gets hijacked by the likes of microsoft who could give two shits about the linux community, and even less of a shit about any of the linux components elect themselves to be the leadership
22:24 <@drobbins> klieber: I have to disagree
22:24 <@seemant> thereby nullifying the very raison d'existance
22:24 <@seemant> raison d'etre whatever
22:24 <@drobbins> yes
22:24 <@seemant> that would be bad
22:24 <@drobbins> I suppose the entire population of iraq could join the coop
22:25 <@drobbins> and then we would be an arm of the nation of iraq
22:25 <@drobbins> that would be really bad too
22:25 <@seemant> you wouldn't need the entire of iraq, who has bigger worries (like oh say, staying alive and watching out for bullets)
22:25 <@drobbins> actually, I think our greatest threat is china
22:25 <@seemant> you would need to worry about corporate interests
22:25 <@seemant> this nfp or co-op isn't a nationalist or patriotic thing
22:25 <@seemant> gentoo devs and users are all over the world
22:25 <@tseng> no one is against a coop
22:26 <@tseng> we are against a coop directly running Gentoo
22:26 <@drobbins> tseng: do you speak for all gentoo users?
22:26 <@klieber> drobbins: do you?
22:26 <@tseng> I speak for a number of developers
22:26 <@Method> people in america don't directly run the government, the elected leaders do
22:26 <@Method> i think that is what he's suggesting
22:26 <@drobbins> klieber: no I do not, thus is the purpose of setting up a coop!!!!
22:26 <@tseng> btw without developers
22:26 <@drobbins> klieber: so they have a voice
22:26 <@tseng> we can pack it up and go home
22:26 <@seemant> Method: then he did poorly at the suggestion
22:27 <@tseng> basically the developers I have spoken to think its simple.. we need an NFP asap, if only on principle
22:28 <+solar> I would tend to agree there.
22:28 <@pvdabeel> people, let's not make fools out of ourselves and continue this meeting at another time or on a public list. This topic is important enough to be discussed on -dev.
22:28 <@tseng> pvdabeel: im sorry?
22:28 <@tseng> who is being a fool.
22:29 <@pvdabeel> the meeting is taking too long
22:29 <@drobbins> tseng: cut it out
22:29 <@tseng> im sorry, cut what out?
22:29 <@pvdabeel> I want to contribute, but I fail to contribute in a good way in the middle of the night
22:29 <@drobbins> pvdabeel: ok
22:29 <@tseng> im trying to speak for the developers here who are +m
22:29 <@pvdabeel> so, please, a discussion on -dev would be best for all
22:29 <@drobbins> tseng: well don't do that, unmod the channel
22:29 <@pvdabeel> of course you are free to continue here 
22:30 <+solar> good night pvdabeel.
22:30 <@tseng> alright
22:30 <@Method> can we please vote before we go open?
22:30 <@tseng> I appologize
22:30 <@drobbins> Method: I vote no split
22:30 <@Method> i want to defend myself against solar real fast
22:30 <@Method> (15:50:57) (+solar) ok.. Method and many of you are on the board. You work on thing that make money.. I don't. Your in this in my opinion to benifit your personal lives.
22:30 <@Method> (15:51:17) (+solar) be that via book sales or otherwise.
22:30 <@Method> Let me say first, that this is a non-issue to me, I don't care who is here to make money or not, however since solar made it into an issue I'll say that solar is outright lying. He has said numerous times in public that this is his 'bread and butter', he's currently working on embedded access points for contracts and trying to base them around gentoo, etc. He *IS* in this for the money, and he's trying to accuse me of this.
22:30 <@Method> I am not here for the money, I've been unemployed and living off savings for the last 4 months, and furthermore, I'm writing a book to help Gentoo, the advances and royalties aren't even enough to live off of.
22:30 <@Method> (15:52:46) (+solar) Well it's in my opinion that method now refuses to let it go because he needs it for the security chapters.
22:30 <@Method> (15:53:05) (+solar) which sorry I also don't want to be apart of.
22:30 <@Method> (15:53:18) (+solar) not unless those profits are going back into gentoo which clearly they wont be.
22:30 <@Method> This is entirely false. My desire to keep hardened together has nothing to do with the book, my desire to keep it together is because they are very related, overlapping projects which need a central home and central support.
22:30 <@Method> This sort of slander really
22:31 <@Method> Now, Drobbins: true of false did I not tell you that i wanted to donate portions of the royalties to gentoo?
22:31 <@drobbins> true
22:31 <@klieber> oh...jesus
22:31 <@Method> ok then
22:31 <@seemant> Method: come on now
22:31 <@Method> solar clearly has *no* clue what he's talking about, and is trying to spin FUD against me
22:31 <@seemant> you've slandered against him as well
22:31 <@pvdabeel> people...
22:31 <@drobbins> ok guys
22:31 <@seemant> you've spun FUD against him
22:31 <@seemant> calling him a blackhat for NO REASON WHATSOEVER
22:31 <@seemant> please!
22:31 <@drobbins> if you want to know why the NFP takes so long to set up
22:31 <@drobbins> look at the bickering, complaining, etc etc
22:31 <@seemant> you even pledged to start a smear campaign against him
22:32 <@drobbins> I am trying to get you guys to have a positive future
22:32 <@drobbins> and it is *hard*
22:32 <@seemant> you can call it slandering mate, but ffs look in the mirror first
22:32 <@tseng> If i can say one last thing
22:32 <@drobbins> and I am not only trying to set up a NFP
22:32 <@tseng> people have been looking for the NFP for a long time
22:32 <@drobbins> I am trying to figure out how to set up a model that will lead to more *productive work* and be successful long-term
22:32 <@tseng> and its very frustrating at this point to not know what is going on
22:33 <@tseng> it is good to know that you are working hard to benefit the entire community
22:33 <@pvdabeel> which is exactly why we should stop now and discuss on a mailinglist. 
22:33 <@tseng> ok.
22:33 <@seemant> Method: ergo, if it's not right for him to do it, it's NOT RIGHT for YOU either
22:33 <@tseng> lets make a mailinglist
22:33 <@drobbins> this kind of bickering will not lead to good things for this project
22:33 <@seemant> neither will bloody hypocrisy
22:34 <@spyderous> drobbins: communities don't always agree
22:34 <@drobbins> I am hoping that more accountablity will give people more of a focus on the users actually using the software rather than killing their fellow developer
22:34 <@iggy> we need to leave all decision making to a magic 8-ball
22:34 <@drobbins> it can all become a "my needs as an unappreciated developer" echo chamber rather quick
22:35 <@iggy> no more managers, just a magic 8-ball
22:35 <@seemant> I vote  with tseng's proposal
22:35 <@drobbins> best idea today
22:35 <@spyderous> can we all settle on making a gentoo-nfp mailing list and move discussion on NFP to there
22:35 <@carpaski> iggy: GenBot: !8ball <question>
22:35 <@seemant> I don't know if he made it here, but I heard it outside of this forum
22:35 <@seemant> THAT is where my vote goes
22:35 <@iggy> carpaski: too easily tampered with...
22:36 <@drobbins> the thing is that I am quite burnt out on debates
22:36 <@pvdabeel> let us hash out proposals on a mailinglist and resolve any further questions at a later time
22:36 <@iggy> method wants us to vote on his little thing today
22:36 <+solar> Guys you can actually vote all you want.. But either way you kinda need to understand that those efforts are good as dead for hardened period. I wont support it. spender wont support it. pipacs wont support. etc... As long as method is leading it. (sorry method but your outta your leage here)
22:37 <@seemant> solar: I wish you would make up your mind about where you stand as well
22:37 <@seemant> changes every 2 blinking days
22:37 <@seemant> method wasn't good enough, then he was perfect, now he's out of his league
22:37 <@seemant> can you make a farking decision on the matter already?
22:37  * iggy gets some popcorn... and throws it in tseng'
22:37 <@iggy> s hair
22:38 <@tseng> :(
22:38 <@pvdabeel> ok, can we continue this meeting at another time? yes or no only. It is my impression that we're all getting a bit tired
22:39 <@seemant> seriously, solar and Method at this point have BOTH shown too many frickin issues over this
22:40 <@seemant> while I'm in fighting mode, I better quit
22:40 -!- seemant [~seemant@seemant.developer.gentoo] has left #gentoo-meetings ["work it the f*ck out already"]
22:41 <+solar> I've stated how I felt. And what I think should happen. It's up to the rest of you if you want to see gentoo continue to drive such things fwd.
22:41 <@pvdabeel> ok, thank you for your contribution solar.
22:41 <@pvdabeel> many thanks to everyone else too. 
22:41 <@tseng> cya pvdabeel 
22:42 <@pvdabeel> This was one hell of a meeting, and I'm glad we can conclude it now and continue on a mailinglist
22:44 -!- tseng [~tseng@tseng.developer.gentoo] has left #gentoo-meetings ["bye all"]
22:45 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by avenj
22:46 <@avenj> if anybody's interested in an open discussion period, go for it
22:46 <@carpaski> Not certain anyone is actually paying attention anymore.
22:46 <@avenj> me either
22:46 < pYrania> well..
22:46 <@carpaski> Bickering generally kills conversation and interest.
22:47 < cybersystem> ok, i just created the list gentoo-nfp
22:47 <@carpaski> There was a lot of that.
22:47 < bcowan_> I'm paying attention, but I see no point in discussion
22:47 < swtaylor> well, for lack of a coop existing at the moment, the voting and comments are probably best put to the people who curently have a stake in the project - the devs themselves
22:47  * iggy throws feces at carpaski 
22:48  * carpaski is apprecitive that BitchX filters such things.
22:48 <@spyderous> ok, we've got a gentoo-nfp mailing list
22:48 <@spyderous> subscribe if you're interested
22:49 < Stuart> can we speak yet?
22:49 <@spyderous> --- avenj sets mode -m #gentoo-meetings
22:49 <@spyderous> <avenj> if anybody's interested in an open discussion period, go for it
22:49 <@carpaski> Starting 3 minutes ago, yeah
22:49 <+solar> I relly think we need to stop talking about it and just do it.
22:49 < Stuart> ok
22:49 -!- cshields [~cshields@cshields.developer.gentoo] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Leaving"]
22:49 < Stuart> thanks for the new list, but I'm posting to -dev about this
22:49 <@spyderous> Stuart: please at least double-post and redirect people to the nfp list for further discussion
22:50 < swtaylor> i like the whole idea of a coop, don't get me wrong. but has anyone noticed how the snort project turned from community-driven to $$$-driven?
22:50 < bcowan_> what's the point in discussing NFP, damn thing has been beaten to death for years
22:50 < Stuart> the only thing to discuss about the NFP is whether daniel is ever going to do it or not
22:50  * pYrania nods
22:51 <@spyderous> it should be fairly obvious that the plans are still unclear
22:51 < swtaylor> i support the whole coop idea, i just think it should be clearly separate from gentoo -- at least based on what i've heard so far
22:51 <@spyderous> what needs to happen is clarity, then action
22:51 < scox> swtaylor: of course, they got on the matrix :)
22:52 < scox> whops, no wait
22:52 < scox> that was nmap
22:54 < swtaylor> scox: there have been complaints that the snort upstream only takes bug tickets, or even patches for that matter, from the $$$-backed organization of their own that sells integrated snort systems
22:55 < pYrania> spyderous: didn't all agree on a NFP some month ago? i don't think we need to clarify anything.
22:55 -!- cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem-gentoo.staff.freenode] has left #gentoo-meetings []
22:55 <@spyderous> pYrania: if you've been watching there's a lot that isn't clear
22:56 < scox> swtaylor: that's ugly
22:56 < Stuart> spyderous: daniel seemed to be making it up as he went along
22:56 <@spyderous> i don't know about that.
22:56 < Stuart> sorry - I just don't think he knows what he wants
22:57 < pYrania> spyderous: i sure did. but don't expect me to understand it at all.
22:57 < swtaylor> scox: its maybe not totally that bad, but there have at least been *some* comments about that happening, and of course they save the best features for their purchased systems...
22:58 < swtaylor> scox: totally their option, open market and all, but they have lost a lot of respect in my eyes because of that, and I would hate to see that or anything like that happen to gentoo
22:58 -!- carpaski [~carpaski@carpaski.developer.gentoo] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Sometimes, talking about it makes it worse. heh."]
22:59 < scox> yeah
22:59 < tigger^> the snort management is shite
22:59 < tigger^> Pardon my language
23:00 < Stuart> got to get up for work soon
23:00 < Stuart> nn all
23:00 -!- Stuart [~stuart@Stuart.developer.gentoo] has left #gentoo-meetings []
23:03 < zhen> sigh ...
