--- Log opened Mon Jan 12 16:55:18 2004
16:55:18 -!- pappy- [~pappy@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
16:55:18 -!- Irssi: #gentoo-meetings: Total of 4 nicks [2 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 2 normal]
16:55:19 -!- Irssi: Join to #gentoo-meetings was synced in 1 secs
16:55:21 <pappy-> morning
16:55:33 <pappy-> i will be hosting the gentoo meeting this evening
16:55:55 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o pappy-] by avenj
16:56:01 <@pappy-> Kurt warned us that he might be late
16:56:23 <@pappy-> anything we might put in front of his slot?
16:56:34 <brad_mssw> what time is the meeting ?
16:56:41 <@pappy-> 19:00 CET afaik
16:56:49 <@avenj> 1800UTC
16:57:01 <@avenj> unless it's changed recently
16:57:03  * avenj can't recall
16:57:11 <brad_mssw> err, that's what?  3:00PM EST ?
16:57:16 <@avenj> yeah
16:57:19 <brad_mssw> k
16:58:28 <@pappy-> > 1900 UTC
16:58:32 <@pappy-> i wrote in my first mail
16:58:33  * brad_mssw is away: lunch
16:58:54 <brad_mssw> err, so 4PM EST ?
17:02:24 <@pappy-> which city are you in?
17:02:29 <@pappy-> in Berlin its 18:00 now
17:04:40 <@pappy-> Time is fixed on Monday, January 12, 2004, at 19:00:00 UTC time
17:04:43 <@pappy-> http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?year=2004&month=1&day=12&hour=19&min=0&sec=0
17:04:52 <@pappy-> New YorkMon 2:00 PM
17:05:25 <@pappy-> Berlin Mon 8:00 PM
17:07:12 <@pvdabeel> Brussels 8:00 PM :-)
17:07:49 -!- spyderous [spyderous@sfa233112.richmond.edu] has joined #gentoo-meetings
17:08:51 -!- iggy [~iggy@65.248.109.87] has joined #gentoo-meetings
17:08:54 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o iggy] by ChanServ
17:17:18 -!- LiveWire_ [rlj2@dialup-171.75.110.86.Dial1.Cincinnati1.Level3.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
17:44:00 -!- g2boojum [~grant@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
17:44:03 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o g2boojum] by ChanServ
17:48:21 -!- tseng [~tseng@tseng.registered.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
17:48:38 <tseng> hi.
17:48:54 -!- max [~max@valkyrie.lsit.ucsb.edu] has joined #gentoo-meetings
17:50:30 <@pappy-> gentoo meeting starting in about 1 hour
17:59:30 <@g2boojum> pappy-: Can you log the meeting?
18:03:06 -!- drobbins [~drobbins@inventor.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:03:09 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o drobbins] by ChanServ
18:03:42 <@drobbins> meeting started?
18:05:00 -!- rajiv [~irc@bronze.imagineblue.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:05:23 -!- carpaski [carpaski@host165.spe.iit.edu] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:05:26 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o carpaski] by ChanServ
18:06:45 <@g2boojum> drobbins: 1900 (another 55 minutes)
18:06:49 -!- Aether [~aether@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:06:50 <@drobbins> g2boojum: ok
18:07:06 <@drobbins> g2boojum: I won't be here for it, but I'm sending an email to core about catalyst and livecds
18:07:47 <@g2boojum> drobbins: Fair enough.  Thanks!
18:07:56 -!- pauldv [~pauldv@callisto.cs.kun.nl] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:07:59 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o pauldv] by ChanServ
18:08:06 <@iggy> drobbins: does genkernel need to be in the livecd/packages for livecd-stage1
18:09:12 <@drobbins> iggy: I forget
18:09:29 <@drobbins> checking
18:09:43 <@iggy> I keep getting an error about genkernel not being found while building livecd-stage2
18:10:15 <@drobbins> iggy: update your cvs
18:10:33 <@drobbins> iggy: and make sure you are using an updated runscript from the examples/livecd/runscript/ dir 
18:10:33 <@iggy> it is
18:10:41 <@drobbins> the run) target has "emerge genkernel" in it
18:11:14 <@drobbins> s/target/portion of the runscript/
18:11:31 <@drobbins> iggy: make sure that sys-kernel/genkernel (latest version) is unmasked in your portage snapshot
18:11:53 <@drobbins> iggy: _beta4. currently it's ~x86, so if you're doing stuff on x86 then change to "x86" and then do your snap
18:12:48 <@iggy> I changed it before I made my snapshot
18:13:07 <@drobbins> iggy: the run portion emerges genkernel, and then calls genkernel
18:13:38 <@drobbins> iggy: I added some late-night fixes last night, so if something isn't working, it could be due to that. but you don't need genkernel in livecd/packages
18:14:12 <@iggy> I'm using the latest src... I'll try to figure it out
18:14:32 <@drobbins> iggy: /msg me the errors you get
18:14:38 <Aether> meeting is in about at hour right?
18:14:38 <@drobbins> iggy: and I can look into it in a bit
18:14:44 <@drobbins> yep
18:20:12 <@pappy-> i am logging, yes
18:22:19 <@pappy-> 18:14:38 <Aether> meeting is in about at hour right?
18:22:19 <@pappy-> 18:14:38 <@drobbins> iggy: and I can look into it in a bit
18:22:19 <@pappy-> 18:14:44 <@drobbins> yep
18:26:58 <@drobbins> ok, sent email to -core about catalyst and livecds
18:28:01 -!- trance [~kevyn@c-24-6-101-81.client.comcast.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:29:10 <@drobbins> anyone else notice a time delay for messages posted to -core?
18:29:18 <@drobbins> my message should show up sometime soon
18:30:02 <@pappy-> i sent several messages and they overtook each other
18:35:50 -!- LiveWire_ is now known as LiveWire
18:42:41 -!- Ramereth [~lance@ramereth.registered.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:46:05 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v brad_mssw] by pappy-
18:46:06 -!- solar [~solar@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:46:11 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o solar] by pappy-
18:46:16 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v spyderous] by pappy-
18:46:23 <@solar> I'm not apart of this meeting.
18:46:29 <@pappy-> solar: you're what?
18:46:40 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v solar] by solar
18:46:42 <trance> lol
18:46:43 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-o solar] by solar
18:46:46 <+solar> I'm saying I dont need @
18:46:47 <@pappy-> solar: *shrug*
18:46:54 <+solar> thank you however
18:46:57 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v trance] by pappy-
18:47:04 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v Aether] by pappy-
18:47:11 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v tseng] by pappy-
18:47:15 <+spyderous> what's the deal w/ the voice?
18:47:19 <@pappy-> spyderous: i dont know
18:47:24  * pappy- is stage-frightened
18:47:31 <@pappy-> did i do something wrong already?
18:47:51 <+solar> newp
18:48:02  * pappy- has never been chairing anything bigger than some guys sitting together chatting about shell scripts
18:48:13 -!- GMsoft [~r0_ot@stargate.lln.tuxicoman.be] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:48:26 <@pappy-> hoi GMsoft 
18:48:32 <@pappy-> GMsoft: can you see me wearing a tie!
18:48:33 <GMsoft> haloa
18:48:38 <GMsoft> pappy-: lol no :)
18:49:17 <GMsoft> pappy-: if you do, please send me a pic :)
18:51:56 <@pauldv> drobbins: I have noticed delays for quite some time now, sometimes more, sometimes less
18:52:03 <@pappy-> this channel will be moderated when the meeting starts
18:52:17 <@pappy-> any managers who need to be ops around who still not have it?
18:52:29 <@pappy-> solar: do we have all managers opped?
18:52:48 <Ramereth> i thought chanserv took care of that
18:52:55 <@pappy-> anyone of you using Earth Station file sharing client?
18:52:59 -!- SwifT [~Sven@D5E06F98.kabel.telenet.be] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:53:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o SwifT] by ChanServ
18:53:33 <GMsoft> perhaps could I have a voice if I need to speak about the hppa port status and the upcoming release ?
18:53:36 -!- tantive [nobody@tantive.registered.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:53:40 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v GMsoft] by pappy-
18:53:44 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o tantive] by pappy-
18:53:48 <+GMsoft> tnx
18:55:14 <@carpaski> General note... +v the speaker(s) (if they aren't managers) for the particular part... take /msg's from everyone else if they have comment. +m for manager discussion, -m for end of meeting comments.
18:55:26  * brad_mssw is back (gone 01:56:52)
18:55:48 <@pappy-> GMsoft: http://dev.gentoo.org/~pappy/tmp/dscf0060.jpg dont be afraid of the hairs in my nose *scnr*
18:56:04 <@SwifT> why? do they bite?
18:56:38 -!- DarkSpecter [~dante@port-212-202-40-252.reverse.qsc.de] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:56:59 <@carpaski> pappy-: You must be on the left middle side of the earth... 
18:57:08 <@carpaski> You're sideways. Kinda weird. ;)
18:57:13 <+GMsoft> lol pappy- 
18:57:34 <+solar> looks like you need to blow your nose.
18:57:49 <@pappy-> not the best position to hold a cam in front of your face
18:57:53 <@pappy-> but otherwise it was too large
18:58:13 <@pappy-> and please
18:58:17 <@pappy-> dont take this picture for a GWN
18:58:19  * pappy- grins
18:58:21 <@SwifT> :)
18:58:23 -!- Azarah [~azarah@wblv-238-222.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:58:26 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o Azarah] by ChanServ
18:58:29 -!- kloeri [~enoch@0x50a11a4e.boanxx8.adsl-dhcp.tele.dk] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:58:31 <@pappy-> hi Martin
18:58:34 <@pappy-> glad you made it
18:58:36 <@Azarah> ello
18:58:37 <@Azarah> ta
18:58:40 <@Azarah> started yet?
18:58:42 <@pappy-> no
18:58:44 <@pappy-> 2 minutes
18:58:56 <@Azarah> k
18:59:35 <@pappy-> Okay, Daniel said, he would not make it to the meeting and he would post a mail to -core about catalyst and related
18:59:39 -!- dertobi123 [~tobias@p508FDF13.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:59:44 -!- coredumb [~coredumb@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
18:59:51 <@pappy-> Kurt said, he has a meeting and might be over time joining later.
18:59:51 <coredumb> foo
18:59:53 <@pappy-> hi coredumb 
18:59:54 -!- stkn [stkn@p508D6670.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:00:19 -!- scox [~scox@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:00:29 <@pappy-> The only point on the agenda was the Gentoo Server Project
19:00:50 <@pappy-> But first of all i would like to welcome you all that you made it to the first gentoo developer meeting on irc this year
19:01:04 <@pappy-> this is the first such meeting for me and i hope i wont disappoint you with a big mistake
19:01:15 <@SwifT> too late *cough* just kidding :)
19:01:18  * trance watches the confetti drop from the cieling.
19:01:23 -!- beejay [~benni@beejay.registered.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:01:33 <beejay> evening
19:01:38 -!- Weeve [weeve@209-6-112-18.c3-0.wth-ubr1.sbo-wth.ma.cable.rcn.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:01:49 <@pappy-> So what is on the agenda other than Kurt Lieber and the Gentoo Server project?
19:01:59 <@pappy-> Because i didnt receive any other mails, but this might have been my fault.
19:02:01  * Ramereth points at +m needing enabled
19:02:12 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+m] by pappy-
19:02:12 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-tings] by pappy-
19:02:14 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+t] by ChanServ
19:02:14 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+n] by ChanServ
19:02:17 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+s] by ChanServ
19:02:18 <@pappy-> urks
19:02:31 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+m] by pappy-
19:02:42 <@pappy-> this was the meetings mode then
19:02:52 <@pappy-> Ramereth: i am not good at setting modes
19:03:05 <@pauldv> pappy-: someone with access should do it, I don't have it either
19:03:21 <@carpaski> Nothing wrong with those modes...
19:03:30 <@carpaski> Let's go. :)
19:03:30 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-knst gh45e] by pappy-
19:03:31 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+k gh45e] by ChanServ
19:03:31 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+n] by ChanServ
19:03:31 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+s] by ChanServ
19:03:34 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+t] by ChanServ
19:03:43 <@pappy-> okay
19:04:00 -!- sj8trunks [~sj7trunks@mobius.lpbproductions.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:04:46 <@pappy-> until klieber arrives and opens with the first official agenda item, you are free and invited to drop in discussion items, dear managers
19:05:15 <@SwifT> I don't have any points actually
19:05:20 <@SwifT> just eagerly waiting for 2004.0 :)
19:05:45 <@pauldv> maybe I could use this to wish everyone a (late) happy new year
19:06:02 <@carpaski> Only thing I have to say is that people really need to be using repoman for commits and they should be using the masked portages (2.0.50).
19:06:14 <@carpaski> I'm making 2.0.50_pre14 ~arch right now.
19:06:20 <@tantive> carpaski: ack
19:06:50 <@pappy-> in the past weeks we saw the following hot topics on the mailing lists: kernel 2.6, unmasking arches you cannot test for, desktop lead...
19:06:59 <+solar> well until you guys have a topic I'd like to tell you all that the GRP stages are getting rolled with software that is very out of date. We all need to take a look at what our respective herds are including and make sure it's up to date.
19:07:26 <@tantive> Are there any plans to integrate high level targets into catalyst? like livecd to build a livecd iso (together with the needed stages and livecdstages)?
19:08:06 <@pauldv> carpaski: one point for repoman, is the copyright date warning fixed to only go of with changed ebuilds?
19:08:24 <@pappy-> tantive: did you read drobbins mail on the -core?
19:08:38 <@pappy-> tantive: i think some of your questions may get answered in the recent one from today
19:08:48 <@tantive> pappy-: ummm, probably not the latest ones
19:08:55 <@tantive> pappy-: k, will check
19:08:56 <@pappy-> tantive: he wrote one just before he left
19:09:51 <@carpaski> pauldv: Don't think so.
19:09:56 <@pappy-> do you developers and managers feel we are in need of more bare metal to test releases and software more comfortably?
19:10:02 <@pappy-> especially the nonintel arch maintainers?
19:10:42 <@pvdabeel> hm
19:10:43 <@SwifT> i'm no arch maintainer, but it would be nice if some solution could be found for the slower arches
19:11:00 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o Weeve] by pappy-
19:11:00 <@SwifT> they're more hurt with issues than x86 is :(
19:11:04 <@pauldv> pappy-: the main problem is in manpower to actually mark stable those ebuilds. It is too easy to let things linger in unstable
19:11:52 <@Weeve> yes, more bare metal could help sparc, since we don't have the ability to test on many server models, mostly desktops
19:12:06 <@Weeve> also faster machines to do building on could help considerably
19:12:13 <@tantive> pauldv: yes, but everyone who wants to contribute manpower to test ebuilds on non x86 needs cpu cycles on that arch
19:12:13 <+trance> pauldv: It's a matter of manpower. non x86 arches don't have enough devs and bare metal to test a quickly.
19:12:24 <+trance> s/a/as
19:12:29 <+GMsoft> I agree
19:12:44 <@pappy-> i was wondering if it would be possible, now that Gentoo has done a great deal of work and attained a good reputation, if it would work to contact vendors directly.
19:12:46 <@tantive> Weeve: some german developers will get ultra10 machines very soon
19:12:47 <@Weeve> yes, manpower is as much needed as bare metal
19:12:55 <@Weeve> tantive: cool!
19:13:08 <@pauldv> trance: in that case we should try to see what we can do on the bare metal front
19:13:22 <@tantive> Weeve: so we will get manpower AND bare metal ;)
19:13:23 <@SwifT> there is no way to use catalyst on non-linux systems (even if gcc is available), is there?
19:13:30 <@pappy-> i see that GMsoft is working his **** off for the gentoo-hppa port
19:13:37 <+trance> pauldv: modern ppc machines sadly are rare on the dev team. heh
19:13:48 <@pvdabeel> hehe
19:14:12 <@pappy-> solar: werent we about to create something nonroot fakeroot and fakechroot with bluefoxicy?
19:14:14 <@pauldv> trance: but those powerbooks are such beautiful machines ;-)
19:14:17 <@pappy-> solar: we could use the HP server farm then
19:14:23 <+trance> pauldv: heh yes.
19:14:38 <@pappy-> there was a library/binary thing that fakes a complete rootshell with chroot and uid
19:14:44 <@tantive> but to get the point: we should really try to setup a gentoo compile farm or something like this
19:14:48 <@pappy-> i was designing it to be used on the HP compile farm for example
19:14:59 <@Weeve> i'm also looking into building sparc releases on sparc64 so it doesn't take a month to get everything done
19:15:41 <@pauldv> carpaski: cross-compiling!!!!
19:16:05 <@pappy-> what could be a good start is some kind of "inner ring" of developer machines connected via VPN structures...
19:16:08 <@carpaski> Zach was the last person to work with me on CCX needs.
19:16:08 <@pappy-> sharing resources and logons
19:16:20 <@pauldv> What I mean is that if we could actually do functional cross-compiling we would be able to spend a lot of cycles
19:17:02 <@pappy-> being a non profit, non commercially oriented organization and not using a company as background skeleton is not always bad.
19:17:03 <@pauldv> carpaski: I don't have time, but I think we should look into it again. I think that package splitting should be doable, and certainly should be a part of portage-ng
19:17:04 <@tantive> pappy-: that sounds very good
19:17:23 <@pappy-> you can make the own decisions on security and infrastructure instead of being forced by a CSO into a construct
19:17:40 <@tantive> pappy-: i already thought about some "autobuilders" like debian has...
19:17:41 <@pappy-> chief security officer
19:17:48 <@Azarah> Nick, any closer projection yet for multi-SLOT-per-version support ?
19:18:17 <@pauldv> carpaski: would there be a way to build packages in user mode (not merge them, but they should have the right permissions in the binary package)
19:18:25 <@pappy-> what is an acceptable delay for internet based distcc compiling?
19:18:33 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v dertobi123] by tantive
19:18:39 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v stkn] by tantive
19:18:41 <@pappy-> what is the maximum delay to make it pay back?
19:18:43 <+spyderous> pappy-: that is unrealistic on anything but a close WAN like a university
19:18:44 <+solar> no chief security officer.. Our security team is hurting really bad we plain and simple have a lack of man power
19:18:48 <@carpaski> Azarah: Can be done, but isn't generally healthy... Will need time to propogate support before ever actually using it.
19:19:08 <@pappy-> spyderous: maybe one can trim it?
19:19:18 <@pauldv> spyderous: accross the ocean should be no problem for me (when I'm at the university ;-) )
19:19:26 <@pappy-> spyderous: doing caching and moving larger work units back and forth?
19:19:40 <@tantive> i think instead of distcc it would be better to find a way to compile ebuilds on contributed machines (without root access)
19:19:41 <@Azarah> carpaski: IMHO, it is crusial for CCX, as having 50 ebuild for all arch's that you can cross compile to will not work
19:19:46 <@pappy-> tantive: yes
19:19:49 <@pappy-> tantive: very good point
19:19:59 <@pappy-> tantive: my point was a dedicated binary/library faking a rootshell
19:20:05 <@Azarah> carpaski: small scale, sure, I cannot see it on a general scale that we have to support
19:20:08 <@pappy-> tantive: but a ebuild-compile-daemon would be cool too
19:20:14 <@Azarah> carpaski: although I am open to alternatives :)
19:20:20 <+spyderous> pappy-: you'd be better off speaking with lisa or the distcc devs about that. i just did some testing this summer.
19:20:25 <@carpaski> Azarah: To really support that sanely, we need a lot more then just the DB storage capability.
19:20:27 <@tantive> so everyone who wants to contribute cycles, could install a special tool or something like that that connects to a server
19:20:38  * pappy- wants to get OpenSSI and Lustre going on cluster.gentoo.org
19:20:41 <@pappy-> around the world
19:20:44 <@tantive> that server could give the machine jobs and get the results back
19:20:51 <@tantive> but
19:21:03 <@tantive> it will be hard to do this without root access
19:21:20 <@tantive> and to support CXX or something like that
19:21:26 <+spyderous> gentoo@home
19:21:52 <@tantive> in the first stage of our efforts it would be enough to use provided machines and compile for the machines arch
19:22:13 <@tantive> later we could focus on CXX to get the maximum out of the contributed cycles
19:22:17 <@Azarah> pauldv: wont package building without actually merging it as fakeroot work ?
19:22:18 <@tantive> spyderous: exactly
19:22:22 <@tantive> suggestions?
19:22:24 <@tantive> comments?
19:22:28 <@Azarah> pauldv: inside fakeroot that is
19:22:40 <@pappy-> we had a transparent fakerootuid binary going
19:22:47 <@pappy-> but we did not manage a fakechroot binary going
19:22:48 <@Azarah> pauldv: so long as /usr/portage/packages is also writable for portage group .
19:22:53 <@pauldv> Azarah: probably. I just want to be able to allow a user to build packages without giving him root privs
19:23:10 <@pauldv> Azarah: we can redirect that with a variable np
19:23:39 <@pappy-> i think the driving power of a "tool in need" formulated in a good Gentoo Linux Enhancement Proposal with some people able to code C behind it could do good.
19:24:07 <+trance> back to the bare metal question, Do we have a policy in place for using store funds to get devs machines to help further development?
19:24:39 <+trance> my reasoning is, remote access to a box is nice, but it doesn't help developing kernels, livecd's and such. You need physical access to do that =)
19:24:56 <@pappy-> trance: exactly
19:25:11 <@pvdabeel> I think we have a GLEP about hardware etc,dunno whois working on that
19:25:12 <@carpaski> Some of those nice remote console cards would be cool.
19:25:15 <@pappy-> i was asking how effective it would be to drop some mails to the public relation contacts of the big dot coms
19:25:23 <@pappy-> carpaski: remote insight boards on intel...
19:25:34 <@carpaski> A lot of COLO's can provide that for a nominal fee.
19:25:35 <@pappy-> carpaski: and on sun/hp we have that on board natively afaik
19:25:44 <@tantive> trance: i think it would be better to make contributions of cycles usable and not to buy machines
19:26:02 <@pappy-> tantive: we have kernels to test... and booting and installation
19:26:15 <+trance> tantive: well that won't help at all for testing kernels and livecds
19:26:20 <@tantive> pappy-: good point, some machines for devs would be great
19:26:23 <@pappy-> the question is: does the machine have to be shipped..
19:26:32 <@pauldv> trance: building livecd's should be doable remote, testing not. That needs bandwidth
19:26:43 <@tantive> pappy-: but i think we should focus on something on a contribution base
19:26:48 <+trance> pauldv: that needs a physical box to test =)
19:26:49 <@pappy-> and the answer is: get remote insight boards for intel and use nonroot serial console shells on suns and other nonintel
19:26:56 <@tantive> pappy-: which could allow us to test many many ebuilds
19:26:58 <+trance> won't work for ppc
19:27:11 <@tantive> pappy-: and we can't buy machines for all devs
19:27:12 <@pauldv> trance: that's where the bandwidth comes in.
19:27:24 <+trance> pauldv: how will bandwith fix not having the machine? =)
19:27:24 <@Weeve> sparcs can do serial console remotely, as long as you have someone there to juggle CDs and reset in the case of lockups
19:27:31 <@pauldv> trance: but you can at least do partial tests
19:27:40 <+trance> pauldv: howso?
19:27:44 <@pappy-> maybe GMsoft can shed some light
19:27:46 <@Weeve> dev wise we have regular monitor and keyboard console decently covered
19:27:57 <@pappy-> GMsoft: what are your experiences, can you share some please?
19:28:23 <@pauldv> trance: not having a machine at all is a problem, but there must be someone who has a machine by himself to run the test, for that it can be slow
19:28:40 <@pvdabeel> There's a possibility for ppc to start selling gentoo-ppc loaded machines
19:28:47 <+trance> pauldv: in some cases, none of the devs have that machine. 
19:29:12 <@pauldv> trance: which archs are that
19:29:22 <+trance> pauldv: ppc.
19:29:32 <@pappy-> So, to conclude that multitude of discussed opinions, we should formulate some more generalized categorizations of developer access and the quality of those and contact vendors and possible sponsors, right?
19:29:32 <+trance> pauldv: I'd say sparc too just guessing.
19:29:50 <@pauldv> trance: are there too many different subarchs for those archs?
19:29:53 <@pappy-> developer access light, medium and full
19:30:04 <@pappy-> light: rootshell and no local contact
19:30:12 <+trance> pauldv: no, we just don't have 60 devs on non x86 arches
19:30:14 <@pappy-> medium: rootshell, local help contact for booting, reset
19:30:22 <@pappy-> full: machine is under your desk and has big pipe
19:30:57 <@pappy-> would that be okay for you gentlemen?
19:31:03 <@Weeve> remote access to non-x86 machines is good for regular developers to test that their packages build and possibly work ok, but for release work, it can be hindering
19:31:11 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v beejay] by tantive
19:31:12 <@pappy-> Weeve: exactly
19:31:20 <@pappy-> Weeve: i appreciate your comment.
19:31:36 <@pappy-> it also follows the recent thread on dev where people discussed the unmasking thing
19:31:52 <@pappy-> developers across gentoo should be given a chance
19:32:25 <@pappy-> so, this also breaks down to authentification
19:32:57 <@pappy-> do the different herd leaders plan on root ssh keys to be generated and given to the herd developers for testing in specially prepared chroots on target machines?
19:33:03 <@tantive> i think a vpn sounds good
19:33:05 <@pappy-> solar can do the security consulting.
19:33:28 <+solar> I can do what?
19:33:33 <+trance> lol
19:33:34 <@pappy-> solar: what do you think
19:33:41 <@pappy-> solar: would it be possible to generate ssh keys for herds
19:33:46 <+solar> I think I need to read the scroll
19:33:49 <@pappy-> solar: to make testing possible for a full herd?
19:33:54 <@pappy-> solar: or is the risk too high?
19:34:04 <+solar> a shared key is a bad idea.
19:34:17 <@tantive> why not use a vpn?
19:34:26 <@pappy-> when a shared key is a bad idea, we should find a repository for developers ssh pubkeys
19:34:29 <@pappy-> maybe in cvs
19:34:34 <@pappy-> tantive: vpn is underlying
19:34:43 <@pappy-> tantive: the underlying vpn allows ssh trust relationships then
19:35:12 <@pappy-> i am thinking about the drobbins developer boxes, but only a bit wide scaled and more openly usable by arch maintainers
19:35:26 <@tantive> pappy-: as do i
19:35:28 <@pauldv> pappy-: ask seemant, devrel is collecting information on devs
19:35:35 <@pappy-> pauldv: thanks
19:35:37 <@pauldv> pappy-: but actually they are all on dev.gentoo.org
19:36:00 <@pappy-> g2boojum: good, we will reschedule klieber now
19:36:09 <@pauldv> pappy-: as they are used for login on cvs
19:36:09 <@pappy-> Dear gentlemen, thanks for your audience, klieber apparently could not make it
19:36:14 <+trance> pappy-: in regards to that, we need to also have someone from that arch identify what boxes are needed before we purchase anything for compile farms. would be bad to purchase something we didn't need because devs elsewhere have that subarch
19:36:25 <@Weeve> too bad pgp isn't centralized or you could use their key ID as the authentication method
19:36:26 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by pappy-
19:36:45 <@pappy-> trance: good
19:36:50 <@pappy-> Weeve: yes, sad
19:37:02 <@pappy-> i will log that discussion and propose the ideas in a concentrated fashion
19:37:04 <@Weeve> unless we setup a PKI to handle the authentication
19:37:06 <@pauldv> Weeve: actually we need to collect pgp keys too as we will be going towards signed ebuilds
19:37:17 <@pappy-> so you all think it is a good thing to plan for future integration of machinas around the world, agreed?
19:37:28 <@pappy-> and while speaking about PGP
19:37:38 <@Weeve> pauldv: right, i'm just thinking that a pgp key is only as good as your trust for who it purports to be for
19:37:45 <@tantive> pappy-: yes
19:37:46 <@pauldv> pappy-: the biggest problem is in publishing a set of trusted keys and having portage listen
19:37:52 <@pappy-> we have some devs onboard who might have a problem being "disclosed" their real identity and i would not want that to happen
19:37:58 <@g2boojum> In case anybody missed it, pappy- opened up the floor so that devs who want to get in on this discussion are welcome to do so.
19:38:15 -!- stkn [stkn@p508D6670.dip.t-dialin.net] has quit [Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer)]
19:38:16 <@pauldv> Weeve: that means possibly that the ring needs to be revoked maybe even daily
19:38:18 <@avenj> devs need to be willing to expose their real identity
19:38:26 <@tantive> avenj: yes
19:38:28 <@avenj> in fact, i will no longer add developers who refuse to publically disclose their real name
19:38:41 <+trance> avenj: some devs cannot, for contractual reasons to the companies they work for.
19:38:42 <@pappy-> i am looking forward to the fosdem in belgium
19:38:46 <@Weeve> pauldv: right, where a PKI with CRL checking enabled makes for a more easily managed infrastructure i believe
19:38:48 <@tantive> pappy-: i thought we have no devs without knowing their real identity?
19:38:50 <@pappy-> and i hope to see many gentoo devs located around belgium
19:38:54 <@avenj> trance: so there are devs who can't tell us their real names?
19:39:05 <+trance> avenj: its not that we dont know who they are, we do. its that they dont want that on a webpage
19:39:10 <@avenj> trance: why?
19:39:23 <@pauldv> Weeve: I think the ring can come in the portage tree if we find a way to ensure that no-one can hinder revokation
19:39:25 -!- ian|home [~ian@reverse-213-146-113-231.dialin.kamp-dsl.de] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:39:29 <@pappy-> i feel there is some kind of unneeded hostility towards "in flagranti" developers
19:39:38 <@tantive> trance: thats another story
19:39:44 <@pappy-> i am very happy to have those devs with me and i trust them 12.000%
19:39:45 <@pappy-> percent
19:39:55 <+trance> because it creates issues for them at work. there isn't a conflict of interest between being a dev and work but they dont want to put a flag up saying I do both so work can bitch.
19:40:28 -!- stkn [stkn@p508D6670.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:40:42 <+trance> avenj: personally I can only think of 2 people that affects and thats because the company they work for has stupid ideas that they own that person =)
19:40:43 <@pappy-> a driving licence used to certify a developer you meet in real life could also be forged.
19:41:03 <@g2boojum> trance: That should be fine, but devrel needs to know who they are for the copyright transfer to be legal.
19:41:07 <+trance> pappy-: Sure and any cop who's passed a basic reading test can look at it and laugh =)
19:41:08 <@pappy-> so this all comes down to a question of trusting someone
19:41:15 <+trance> g2boojum: That's fine and those 2 know that. =)
19:41:16 <+solar> there are many reason I could see why a developer might not wish to disclose such information.
19:41:35 <@pauldv> trance: we don't need to make their name public, but refusing to give it at all is a problem
19:41:43 <@pappy-> so, i would like to summarize the intentions of the Gentoo Developer VPN
19:41:59 <@avenj> trance: if they're in a contract that doesn't permit them to work for us, they probably can't sign over copyright to us either
19:42:04 <@avenj> trance: which means they _can't_ work for us
19:42:06 <+trance> pauldv: I never advocated giving it all, just some specific individuals had issues with public.
19:42:07 <@pappy-> 1) shared access to intel and non intel arches around the world in near vicinity of gentoo research, release engineering and testing
19:42:18 <+trance> avenj: I understand that. Its not that issue. 
19:42:39 <@pappy-> 2) sharing data and developer environments like chroots between developers to cooperate on bug hunting and streamlining architectures
19:43:00 <@pappy-> 3) improving the keywords for the whole portage tree
19:43:21 <@pappy-> would that sound good enough?
19:43:25 -!- tantive [nobody@tantive.registered.freenode] has quit ["Client exiting"]
19:45:10 <@pappy-> anything the developers would like to discuss other than this self made item from now on?
19:46:48 <@pappy-> yes, please?
19:47:05 <@SwifT> nope, thanks
19:47:07 <@SwifT> :)
19:47:47 <@pappy-> okay, so i blew it, right?
19:48:04 <+spyderous> it's tough to blow anything when none of the speakers show up.
19:48:17 <@pauldv> pappy-: not really, you're not at fault if noone wants to speak
19:48:26 <@SwifT> you hardly blew up anything; if there are not many points, then there are not many points
19:48:50 <@SwifT> so sit back and relax, you did a great job :)
19:48:57  * carpaski reiterates USE REPOMAN -- REPORT BUGS -- FOO!
19:49:01 <@pappy-> okay, so any one got a good joke left otherwise i will call it a day and send the log :-)
19:49:36 <@pauldv> carpaski: which version do you advise for portage?
19:49:50  * trance iterates if you want to help an arch do something, let them know before you start doing it! Work duplication is silly =)
19:50:04 <@carpaski> echo "sys-apps/portage" >> /etc/portage/package.unmask ; echo "sys-apps/portage" >> /etc/portage/package.keywords
19:50:07 <@carpaski> That one.
19:50:28 <+spyderous> package.keywords?
19:50:36 <+brad_mssw> ok, this meeting  3PM or 4PM EST ?
19:50:46 <@carpaski> 1pm CST
19:50:46 <+spyderous> 2pm est
19:50:52 <+brad_mssw> eh?
19:50:55 <+brad_mssw> shit
19:51:04 <+brad_mssw> already over ?
19:51:09 <+spyderous> yep
19:51:13 <+brad_mssw> wtf
19:51:15 <@pappy-> brad_mssw: welcome
19:51:25 <@carpaski> package.keywords is keywords for packages... Novel concept.
19:51:26 <@carpaski> ;)
19:51:36 <@g2boojum> carpaski: Cool!!!!!!  /me bows 
19:51:38 <@pappy-> brad_mssw: officially it is not _yet_ over, so you can have the last word if you want!
19:51:40 <+brad_mssw> I came in here earlier, and I got   1800UT and 1900UT as answers
19:51:47 <+brad_mssw> how'd it change
19:51:54 <+spyderous> brad_mssw: date -u
19:52:09 <@pappy-> Mon Jan 12 19:52:06 UTC 2004
19:52:28 <+brad_mssw> crap, asked someone if that was  3PM EST, and they said yes
19:52:30 <+brad_mssw> oh well
19:52:37 <+brad_mssw> I hate UTC time
19:52:41 <+brad_mssw> never get it straight
19:52:43 <@carpaski> package.keywords/package.use was submitted by someone... genone/max ? Not sure off my head.
19:53:00 <@carpaski> I just hacked it up a bit.
19:53:05 <+spyderous> oh, that's working now. fun
19:53:10 <@pappy-> brad_mssw: did you want to say something that should be in the summary, talk now please :-)
19:53:29 <+brad_mssw> well, basically wanted to know if anyone talked about livecds and catalyst
19:53:33 <@pappy-> no
19:53:33 <+brad_mssw> and what's going on there
19:53:40 <+brad_mssw> ok, then I'm not needed
19:53:42 <@pappy-> Daniel could not make it
19:53:46 <+spyderous> just drobbins email to core
19:53:46 <+brad_mssw> figured that've been a topic
19:55:18 <@pappy-> Okay, i would like to thank you all very much for your time and i excuse for the semi-unorganized structure of this "come together" style meeting and i hope the next one will be held in a bit more item-based fashion.
19:55:41 <@pauldv> pappy-: thanks for leading this organized mess ;-)
19:55:47 <+trance> pappy-: no worries mate. We only had 1 item on the Agenda, and the presenter couldn't make it. you did fine =)
19:56:22 <@pappy-> If no one else is left to get his hand up to speak i call it a good start of the year and wish you all a great amount of luck doing stepi in your gdb> sessions
19:56:36 <@Weeve> thanks :)
19:56:37 <@pappy-> log will be sent now
20:00:00 -!- lanius [~lanius@195.37.161.2] has joined #gentoo-meetings
