May 17 13:59:47 <avenj>	okay, let's get started
May 17 13:59:53 <carpaski>	zhen_work: ok
May 17 14:00:22 -->	ciaranm (~ciaranm@ciaranm-gentoo.active.supporter.pdpc) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:00:27 <avenj>	first issue is manager voting requirements; way back we decided on 100% approval, but it's always been somewhat loose
May 17 14:00:37 <pauldv>	ok
May 17 14:00:59 <avenj>	100% approval is really rough and could possibly put a big dent in progress
May 17 14:01:13 <pauldv>	I agree
May 17 14:01:20 *	dmwaters agrees to
May 17 14:01:22 *	SwifT too
May 17 14:01:33 <dmwaters>	75% might be better
May 17 14:01:41 <Method>	i have yet to see why it's a managerial issue, the developers being represented in said project are the ones who should have a say
May 17 14:01:49 <avenj>	i think we should go with a super-majority (66% or more)
May 17 14:02:01 <SwifT>	I'd say 2/3rd... it's most used afaik and democratic enough :)
May 17 14:02:04 <avenj>	Method: because other managers have to work with them -- we're talking about approval, not election per se
May 17 14:02:30 <avenj>	Method: in other words, devs can pick a manager if they like, but the existing management team (supposedly) has to approve it after that
May 17 14:02:44 <Method>	hrm, it turns into a coup then, we only let our 'friends' in who will agree with us, etc, look at what would happen to congress if that was the method
May 17 14:02:47 <SwifT>	and if it doesn't, then it should give one hell of a reason :)
May 17 14:02:54 <Method>	ok
May 17 14:02:58 <Method>	thats fair enough
May 17 14:03:02 <dmwaters>	2/3rds, nod
May 17 14:03:07 <tseng>	wfm
May 17 14:03:16 <pauldv>	I agree on 2/3th
May 17 14:03:27 -->	port001 (~port001@port001.developer.gentoo) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:03:40 <SwifT>	klieber agrees on 2/3rd as well (he's off now but he asked me to relay his voice on the matter)
May 17 14:03:50 <carpaski>	I'm good with 2/3rds
May 17 14:04:19 <Method>	given that it is for approval *only* i agree
May 17 14:04:28 -->	beejay (~benni@beejay.developer.gentoo) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:04:31 <pauldv>	Method: what do you mean?
May 17 14:04:39 <avenj>	pauldv: he means approval vs. appointment i think
May 17 14:04:41 <Method>	look at 10 lines up
May 17 14:05:28 <pauldv>	Method: ok
May 17 14:05:38 <SwifT>	same goes here; also for approval only - the candidate must be nominated by the project itself
May 17 14:05:58 <tseng>	while we are on that
May 17 14:06:06 -->	Kugelfang (dvandyk@pD9E1DDEA.dip.t-dialin.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:06:13 <tseng>	anyone up for setting that process in stone?
May 17 14:06:22 -->	jhuebel|work (~jhuebel@216.61.131.173) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:06:22 <avenj>	perhaps metastructure should document it?
May 17 14:06:26 <tseng>	there was some contention last time around.
May 17 14:06:51 <avenj>	or maybe g2boojum should under devrel/manager-meetings/
May 17 14:06:51 *	dmwaters nods at avenj
May 17 14:06:54 <SwifT>	avenj: process for the project nomination?
May 17 14:06:55 <pauldv>	tseng: the problem was that there was no project before
May 17 14:06:55 <avenj>	not sure
May 17 14:07:01 <tseng>	we asked ombudsman to arbitrate the vote
May 17 14:07:05 <tseng>	which I think is a good plan
May 17 14:08:15 <SwifT>	I'm fine with that, although I think a bit more "rules" should be in place (yuck, bureaucracy :)
May 17 14:08:23 <dmwaters>	hehe
May 17 14:08:32 <dmwaters>	SwifT: what kind of rules
May 17 14:08:38 <SwifT>	for instance, the project _must_ have an alias on which all participating developers are (how would you be able to contact the project otherwise?)
May 17 14:08:56 <dmwaters>	SwifT: I think we're talking about tlp's
May 17 14:09:20 <SwifT>	dmwaters: well, tlps also need a central point of communication where all participating developers are on
May 17 14:09:21 -->	esammer_ (~esammer@249-194.customer.cloud9.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:09:31 <dmwaters>	SwifT: I think they already have that
May 17 14:09:34 <pauldv>	SwifT: it is about tlp's indeed. Also we might first wait for my item
May 17 14:09:47 <SwifT>	sure
May 17 14:10:01 <avenj>	yeah, let's return to this after pauldv's issue; i'd like to get the releng confirmation issue out of the way since that's the last voting issue on the agenda
May 17 14:10:05 <pauldv>	in the meantime people could take a look at: http://dev.gentoo.org/~pauldv/structure.html which is a PRELIMINARY idea about the structure
May 17 14:10:07 <SwifT>	as another "rule", I was thinking about a period in which nominations can be gathered so that the nomation process isn't rushed
May 17 14:10:22 <SwifT>	go ahead :)
May 17 14:10:41 <pauldv>	SwifT: I basically agree. We need some good nomination procedure
May 17 14:11:02 <SwifT>	let's first get releng done, then we can discuss things :)
May 17 14:11:07 <avenj>	we're missing two managers (pvdabeel from tools and seemant from qa), so we'll have to get absentee votes from them after
May 17 14:11:18 <avenj>	zhen_work: anything you want to say before we vote on it?
May 17 14:11:39 <zhen_work>	zhen_work: nope, I think that you all know my strengths and weaknesses
May 17 14:11:47 <zhen_work>	thanks though :)
May 17 14:11:51 <SwifT>	avenj: klieber's gone either; he relayed his vote through me but you'll probably want to see it as an idea, not official (just ask him later on again :)
May 17 14:12:10 <avenj>	SwifT: yeah, he gave me his also
May 17 14:12:10 <dmwaters>	avenj: seemant isn't a manager for qa, mr_bones and spanky are
May 17 14:12:15 <SwifT>	k
May 17 14:12:17 <avenj>	dmwaters: oh, the proj listing is out of date, then
May 17 14:12:26 <avenj>	dmwaters: sounds like we need to discuss qa's status at a later date
May 17 14:12:33 <avenj>	so we're missing one manager's vote, really
May 17 14:12:34 <avenj>	anyway
May 17 14:12:46 <pauldv>	dmwaters: if people mail me I can update the page
May 17 14:12:51 <avenj>	aye for yes, nay for no -- i abstain
May 17 14:12:57 <dmwaters>	pauldv: I'll get with you later
May 17 14:13:10 <SwifT>	aye
May 17 14:13:22 <pauldv>	zhen gets an ok from me
May 17 14:13:38 <tseng>	+1 for zhen
May 17 14:14:14 <dmwaters>	aye
May 17 14:15:00 <SwifT>	Method: ?
May 17 14:15:29 <Method>	aye
May 17 14:15:36 <SwifT>	anyway, klieber was against it
May 17 14:15:41 <dmwaters>	carpaski: 
May 17 14:15:53 <carpaski>	aye
May 17 14:16:05 <dmwaters>	spyderous isn't here
May 17 14:16:17 <Method>	wait, what was the question?
May 17 14:16:21 <avenj>	Method: zhen for releng lead or not
May 17 14:16:26 <SwifT>	tsss
May 17 14:16:28 <Method>	oh yea
May 17 14:16:29 *	carpaski had to double check what was going on... Little confusing... Perhaps we should call the question before voting. :-p
May 17 14:16:30 <SwifT>	:)
May 17 14:16:40 <avenj>	carpaski: sorry :)
May 17 14:16:43 *	pauldv agrees with carpaski
May 17 14:16:52 *	avenj figured people knew from the -managers post
May 17 14:17:02 <carpaski>	Yeah... but that's an assumption.
May 17 14:17:03 <SwifT>	well, if e-mail would be working again...
May 17 14:17:03 <SwifT>	:)
May 17 14:17:40 <avenj>	okay, so far we have 6 yes, one no, so we'll solicit absentee votes later
May 17 14:17:58 <avenj>	pauldv: tlp status report?
May 17 14:18:25 <zhen_work>	brb, phone
May 17 14:19:14 <pauldv>	ok. Please all check http://www.cs.kun.nl/~pauldv/structure.html (or the previous page, it is the same)
May 17 14:19:53 -->	wolf31o2 (~wolf31o2@216.215.202.4.nw.nuvox.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:19:58 <pauldv>	let me first state that I'm not at all trying to get managers out of their position or anything
May 17 14:20:18 <pauldv>	however the toplevel structure has become more and more loaded. Also attention is probably at the wrong place.
May 17 14:20:48 <pauldv>	First and for all, gentoo, to me, is the packages. Currently their position is not reflected in the toplevel at all.
May 17 14:21:08 <pauldv>	Further we were getting more and more toplevel projects. This is not really workable.
May 17 14:22:20 <pauldv>	While of course every project is important I have looked at what can be folded together and what is really important.
May 17 14:22:48 <pauldv>	The document is still preliminary, but reflects my view on what we should strive towards
May 17 14:24:01 <pauldv>	It is important to note that these new toplevels do not do much actual work for themselves, but most work gets done by the levels below.
May 17 14:24:02 -->	seemant|ZzZzZz (~trinity@seemant.user.gentoo) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:24:24 <zhen_work>	would we re-elect managers for the new top level projects?
May 17 14:24:27 <dmwaters>	pauldv: I'm a bit confused on how your outlining the tlp, can you put that in words?  I suspect I'm missing something visual by reading that and not understanding
May 17 14:24:42 <pauldv>	zhen_work: I'm not at a point where I have thought about that
May 17 14:24:53 <zhen_work>	pauldv: no prob
May 17 14:25:15 <pauldv>	dmwaters: can you watch the webpage link I send (sorry, I forgot about your disability)
May 17 14:25:21 <dmwaters>	nod
May 17 14:25:24 <dmwaters>	which link
May 17 14:25:40 <pauldv>	zhen_work: I first wanted to see what we think about the proposal
May 17 14:25:45 <pauldv>	dmwaters: http://www.cs.kun.nl/~pauldv/structure.html
May 17 14:25:53 <avenj>	pauldv: the problem with that, as i see it, is that you start reaching a point where things are _too_ abstracted -- with the existing management team you have a situation where everybody's needs can be met in some way because the top level managers are not especially abstracted away from their respective projects
May 17 14:25:56 <pauldv>	dmwaters: it is very very plain html, should be readable as textfile
May 17 14:26:22 <avenj>	pauldv: but devrel and infrastructure, for example, have no connection to each other except in the loosest possible sense
May 17 14:26:27 <pauldv>	avenj: I can see your point
May 17 14:26:48 <pauldv>	avenj: their connection is that they are support functions.
May 17 14:26:55 <SwifT>	the last one is a strange one indeed :)
May 17 14:27:00 <SwifT>	the first one a difficult one
May 17 14:27:04 <pauldv>	they have a role besides the main process
May 17 14:27:28 <avenj>	also, how does forum moderation fit into documentation?
May 17 14:27:30 <pauldv>	where the main process is that of the distribution
May 17 14:27:50 <avenj>	the 'media' setup is just the existing releng structure renamed and split up
May 17 14:27:51 <pauldv>	avenj: it needs to be somewhere.
May 17 14:28:01 <pauldv>	avenj: it is very similar
May 17 14:28:15 <zhen_work>	pauldv: is your proposal already accomplished by the positions of the strategic managers? 
May 17 14:28:23 <avenj>	i know this is preliminary, but as it stands i'm not sure i see what the benefits would be exactly
May 17 14:29:03 <pauldv>	zhen_work: the strategic manager idea is a bit vague. I don't like it so much
May 17 14:29:04 <SwifT>	the main idea is to inform our user base what we mean with a tlp
May 17 14:29:52 <pauldv>	avenj: the advantage would be that for one we have a structure where at least the toplevel would be reasonably consise (6 different subs)
May 17 14:30:03 <avenj>	pauldv: but what would be the benefit of that?
May 17 14:30:05 <tseng>	I cant see a single person representing desktop, server, base etc
May 17 14:30:07 <avenj>	in practical terms
May 17 14:30:11 <avenj>	as i see it, in the existing structure we try to create toplevel projects that aren't too abstracted (the way your document is) but also aren't too specific (although kernel and qa may fit elsewhere)
May 17 14:30:20 <pauldv>	It would allow new projects that do work to be started with relative ease under these projects
May 17 14:30:31 <zhen_work>	pauldv: could we extend those roles to fill the purpose of your proposal?
May 17 14:31:21 -->	seemant (~trinity@seemant.user.gentoo) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:31:27 seemant seemant|ZzZzZz May 17 14:31:32 ---	tseng sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v seemant]
May 17 14:31:49 <pauldv>	tseng: my proposal is about projects. It could be that we decide we need to managers to manage the package tree together. It is after all the main productive process
May 17 14:32:02 <Method>	it's difficult though
May 17 14:32:07 <Method>	look at the bigger picture
May 17 14:32:09 <SwifT>	I think pauldv hits the nail right on the head when he sais that the properties of Gentoo should be reflected in the organizational structure; we shouldn't be focussing too much on how this integrates but rather as a way to present Gentoo's structure to the outside
May 17 14:32:15 <Method>	most people, users, devs don't care about the hardened stuff
May 17 14:32:19 <Method>	but there are plenty of people that do
May 17 14:32:28 <Method>	it's important to us and our users but not many others
May 17 14:33:05 <Method>	unfortunatly it touches stuff that 100% of the userbase has to use
May 17 14:33:11 <pauldv>	A big issue for me with the current structure is that we have many toplevel projects. Many of them are more staff functions (no offense) like infrastructure, devrel and metastructure
May 17 14:33:40 <SwifT>	I think infrastructure is a bit too big to be called a staff function, but I'm an outsider on that part
May 17 14:33:40 <avenj>	i'm really not sure that having many toplevel projects is inherently a bad thing, but rather too many overly specific toplevel projects is a bad thing
May 17 14:33:40 <pauldv>	SwifT: that too indeed
May 17 14:33:45 <avenj>	for example: kernel is overly specific
May 17 14:33:56 *	dmwaters nods at avenj
May 17 14:34:11 <--	seemant|ZzZzZz has quit (Client Quit)
May 17 14:34:24 <avenj>	but nobody's explained why a relatively large number (i'm talking a dozen or less) of toplevel projects is inherently bad
May 17 14:34:38 <pauldv>	avenj: the idea is to have a management team with general areas of responsibility. Under that there can be many projects that  mainly do whatever they want more or less autonomously
May 17 14:34:42 <SwifT>	well, what's a tlp?
May 17 14:34:55 <carpaski>	Top Level Project
May 17 14:35:14 *	carpaski shuts up... as that probably wasn't the question. :-p
May 17 14:35:16 <pauldv>	SwifT: to me the concept could be abandoned in favour of a coordinator responsibility area.
May 17 14:35:21 <SwifT>	if it's an autonomous project that could live on its own without any interaction with other projects?
May 17 14:35:23 <Method>	tlp's should be specific with specific goals IMO, -security has a very specific purpose, to find, patch and make security updates available
May 17 14:35:26 <zhen_work>	a high order layer of abstraction that serves the purpose of general strategic guidance to its subprojects
May 17 14:35:44 <pauldv>	SwifT: a tlp is not independent
May 17 14:36:04 <SwifT>	zhen_work's definition is too abstract to be presented to regular people
May 17 14:36:07 <SwifT>	:)
May 17 14:36:11 <zhen_work>	SwifT: :)
May 17 14:36:33 <SwifT>	Method's definition is a bit too precise in a way that even the kernel project, or even the gdp internationalisation project could be a tlp
May 17 14:36:46 <SwifT>	imho, there should be no project that doesn't have a specific goal
May 17 14:36:47 <pauldv>	Method: in my proposal this would be under one of the top categories. The responsibility of the manager in that area is to see it is done right by others. Not being the main developer in that area
May 17 14:36:52 <avenj>	another thing i like about a relatively large number of tlps is that we don't have a situation where a tiny oligarchy of people is running everything distribution-wide; instead we get a broader management team where everybody can fairly represent the needs of their project, because they're close to the relevant development
May 17 14:37:28 <Method>	pauldv: thats how we've been working on -hardened the whole time, I'm not the main developer, solar, pebenito and others do much more 'tangible' work than me
May 17 14:37:32 *	SwifT nods at avenj; for development/coordination a rather large number (yet not too large) would be appropriate
May 17 14:37:36 <seemant>	oh hey, I'm voice'd
May 17 14:37:36 <pauldv>	avenj: ever tried to have a meeting with more than 20 people (even in real life that is hard. And most of the time it is 5 people doing the talking)
May 17 14:37:39 <seemant>	thanks
May 17 14:37:40 <avenj>	this current proposal seems more aimed at restructuring things to separate tlp management from gentoo management -- that's not necessarily a bad thing, but if it's very narrowly focused, we'll end up with a little group of elite
May 17 14:38:01 <zhen_work>	avenj: a well educated elite group is not necessarily a bad thing
May 17 14:38:11 <avenj>	zhen_work: the developer base seems to mostly disagree
May 17 14:38:16 <pauldv>	avenj: those people have little to do, but come together for issues that span gentoo as a whole
May 17 14:38:17 <SwifT>	eh; any elite group will cause problems 
May 17 14:38:19 <Method>	zhen_work: it needs to be diverse
May 17 14:38:20 <--	beejay (~benni@beejay.developer.gentoo) has left #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:38:26 <zhen_work>	avenj: from a management standpoint, it is more efficient
May 17 14:38:34 <avenj>	zhen_work: sure, a dicatorship is always more efficient
May 17 14:38:40 <zhen_work>	Method: of course, but that is why the best and the brightest would manage it
May 17 14:38:42 <SwifT>	I'd like to call it coordination PoV
May 17 14:38:43 <SwifT>	:)
May 17 14:38:44 <avenj>	zhen_work: and a total democracy is always totally inefficient
May 17 14:38:50 <zhen_work>	avenj: dicatorship is a little extreme
May 17 14:38:51 <Method>	zhen_work: ever seen the simpsons where mensa takes over? :)
May 17 14:38:52 <pauldv>	SwifT: :-)
May 17 14:38:55 <avenj>	zhen_work: which is why some middle ground is good; that's the direction we seem to be taking
May 17 14:39:05 <avenj>	other than the current restructuring proposal, anyway
May 17 14:39:14 <pauldv>	avenj: we will need to fix the current setup.
May 17 14:39:20 <avenj>	pauldv: i'm not convinced it's broken
May 17 14:39:31 <zhen_work>	avenj: which is fine with me, I just hate to see the stereotype of evil small groups being thrown around
May 17 14:39:44 <pauldv>	avenj: also, my idea is to actually allow more things to be setup easilly without having the hassle of needing management approval
May 17 14:39:51 <avenj>	pauldv: i think any proposal restructuring things needs to provide for the kind of broad overall management team we currently have
May 17 14:39:55 <SwifT>	we're also shifting away from the main discussion here; a restructuring on tlp (without consequences on coordination/managers) could provide a fruitful base to explain our users how we see things generally
May 17 14:40:02 <dmwaters>	I think we should shrink what we have, but  don't make it too small so that we have 3 or 4 people with total say
May 17 14:40:18 <avenj>	SwifT: well, i mean, we can throw up a page showing structure that way if that's what users want to see, but it would have no practical purpose in that case
May 17 14:40:22 <avenj>	dmwaters: precisely
May 17 14:40:25 <zhen_work>	dmwaters: yes
May 17 14:40:37 <avenj>	we should focus on how to find some middle ground in the current tlp structure, imo
May 17 14:40:41 <--	ferringb has quit (Client Quit)
May 17 14:40:43 <dmwaters>	kernel would fit under base for example
May 17 14:40:47 <SwifT>	avenj: if it makes a user happy, it is a practical purpose yet perhaps not of the kind we're seeking here :)
May 17 14:40:52 <carpaski>	I'm seeing more than one aspect being discuessed here. Are we discussion "the outside world's view", "the operational view", "the ideal view" ?
May 17 14:40:59 <pauldv>	avenj: a big problem I notice is that we have many "unofficial" projects where people just start to do things together. If those things get bigger they would be on par with toplevels and probably need to become a toplevel.
May 17 14:41:01 <SwifT>	carpaski: all of them afaik
May 17 14:41:31 <carpaski>	Well, as it's a dogpile... I might as well type out my 2 cents.
May 17 14:41:33 <avenj>	rather than shoving a bunch of irrelevancies into a single tlp out of a desperate desire to make things cleaner, we should focus on how to make sure tlps are broad enough to encompass those smaller projects without being so broad they're disconnected and irrelevant
May 17 14:41:43 <SwifT>	pauldv: perhaps you had to make the webpage a bit more elaborate in order to make the discussion less broad :-)
May 17 14:41:45 <pauldv>	SwifT: right. Also if a particular subproject needs to be represented, the manager of that subproject can allways be a guest speaker/participant at a meeting
May 17 14:42:07 <avenj>	anybody can be a guest speaker/participant if they ask nicely, we're talking about actual ability to change the course of things
May 17 14:42:26 <avenj>	and have a real vote
May 17 14:42:36 <tseng>	I
May 17 14:42:38 <carpaski>	Kernel is a TLP because it covers a project that affects all aspects of the distribution. It qualifies under base as it is part of the core system.
May 17 14:42:49 <tseng>	there is one specific here that is troubling
May 17 14:42:59 <pauldv>	avenj: that probably can even be done for decisions that actually affect that project stronger than general projects
May 17 14:43:08 <tseng>	the Media group has exactly one vote, presumably
May 17 14:43:14 <tseng>	so does the Packages group
May 17 14:43:23 <avenj>	i just don't understand why we're making a desperate attempt to lump irrelevancies together
May 17 14:43:27 <tseng>	Packages is the majority of our 200+ developers I'd say
May 17 14:43:28 <SwifT>	tseng: no, pauldv's proposal doesn't mention that part 
May 17 14:43:36 <tseng>	Media as listed is a very very small group
May 17 14:43:39 <Method>	how could someone possibly represent all of packages
May 17 14:43:40 <SwifT>	tseng: "Also these projects do not reflect where we want which managers."
May 17 14:43:40 <Method>	that is insane
May 17 14:43:50 <pauldv>	tseng: not necesarilly, like I said, we might want to have multiple managers on packages. It has nothing to do with managers
May 17 14:43:57 <tseng>	ok.
May 17 14:44:00 <dmwaters>	pauldv: what we need is something a bit less general that explains why something is where it is
May 17 14:44:06 <--	wolf31o2 (~wolf31o2@216.215.202.4.nw.nuvox.net) has left #gentoo-meetings
May 17 14:44:16 <SwifT>	if we want to have a 1:1 mapping regarding tlp:vote, then pauldv's proposal is probably bad; yet nothing sais we cannot separate the two
May 17 14:44:26 <zhen_work>	pauldv: while we are discussing categories, livecds and catalyst could be grouped under releng - that is where they live
May 17 14:44:29 <pauldv>	dmwaters: I'll write it up. I wrote this a bit late.
May 17 14:44:42 <avenj>	taking the staff example: all four things there are totally 100% irrelevant except in a really abstract sense ("they all deal with functions")
May 17 14:44:57 <avenj>	what would be the justification for software, applying the same logic? "they both deal with software"?
May 17 14:44:57 <pauldv>	zhen_work: probably my naming is then wrong and releng would be reflected one-to-one in my proposal
May 17 14:44:59 <SwifT>	s/staff/misc/ and all's set :)
May 17 14:45:22 <zhen_work>	pauldv: no prob
May 17 14:45:53 *	SwifT thinks a more thorough proposal needs to be made (with more justification and such) because, from a bureaucratic PoV, it's too important to discuss on a monday evening (Europe local time :p)
May 17 14:46:13 <pauldv>	avenj: the category name is maybe wrong. The software part is those elements of the project that handle with the "touch of gentoo" to what gets installed. It is our own scripts, our package manager, (the menu would be part of it)
May 17 14:46:27 <pauldv>	SwifT: you're probably right
May 17 14:46:51 <SwifT>	pauldv: otoh, preliminary discussions do tend to give a better view on things :)
May 17 14:47:02 <pauldv>	indeed
May 17 14:47:32 <avenj>	does anybody have anything profound to add to the discussion, or have we beaten that horse to death? 8)
May 17 14:47:42 <tseng>	I'd really not like to see the management structure match that page.. not for fear of my own position, thats no big deal, it just isnt balanced imo
May 17 14:47:45 <avenj>	we should definitely discuss it more once the proposal is somewhat more built up
May 17 14:47:45 <pauldv>	I would ask anyone to also email me their suggestions (also the listeners), and their improvements. I wrote this quite fast (allthough I thought about it longer) so it must have errosrs
May 17 14:47:49 <SwifT>	we've given the horse enough food to have it digest a bit :)
May 17 14:47:55 <tseng>	but I think it does make sense in some ways
May 17 14:47:57 <dmwaters>	heh
May 17 14:48:17 <avenj>	tseng: i agree, we just need to find somewhat more of a middle ground
May 17 14:48:23 <klieber>	if the proposal is simply to make it easier for our users to understand how we do things, then I think it's fine.
May 17 14:48:28 <pauldv>	and please note that I do not wish to take anyone's manager privileges away
May 17 14:48:35 <klieber>	if we're talking about re-organizing internally, then I have a different opinion.
May 17 14:48:39 <pauldv>	klieber: not only to users
May 17 14:48:54 <pauldv>	klieber: please let me hear
May 17 14:49:02 <klieber>	?
May 17 14:49:18 <SwifT>	klieber: pauldv wants your opinion about reorganizing
May 17 14:49:41 <pauldv>	klieber: this is a long-term vision that shouldn't be realised in a short term, and we need transitional plans in any case
May 17 14:49:48 <SwifT>	although I think klieber wants to say that that little page is too little to start a discussion off
May 17 14:49:58 <SwifT>	at least that's what I have to say:p
May 17 14:50:46 <pauldv>	SwifT: I agree that we need more. I'll extend it together with the reasoning behind it and send it to core
May 17 14:51:28 <pauldv>	anyone questions/suggestions?
May 17 14:51:43 <tseng>	Yep.
May 17 14:51:59 <tseng>	a way to equate whats projects we consider TLP to a management structure
May 17 14:52:09 <tseng>	that is fair and balanced to all parts of the project
May 17 14:52:10 <Method>	you should definetly try to expand on the exact limitation you are trying to address because i don't think most people here can see it
May 17 14:53:03 <pauldv>	tseng: I'll try to come up with some idea on the personel part of things that is fair to the relative weight of the projects
May 17 14:53:10 <pauldv>	Method: I'll try to explain it
May 17 14:53:14 <tseng>	pauldv: id like that :)
May 17 14:53:47 <klieber>	pauldv: as method said, when you re-write the doc, if you can try to elaborate on the problem that you're attempting to solve, that would help me understand it a lot more.
May 17 14:54:19 <SwifT>	that settles things I guess... next point! :)
May 17 14:54:20 <avenj>	okay, last item is a releng status update from zhen
May 17 14:54:26 <avenj>	zhen_work: all yours
May 17 14:54:27 <tseng>	yay
May 17 14:54:28 <zhen_work>	yep
May 17 14:54:28 <dmwaters>	afk a sec
May 17 14:54:52 <zhen_work>	ok, releng had a meeting a couple of days ago concerning three main items:
May 17 14:55:05 <zhen_work>	1. what is a gentoo release
May 17 14:55:28 <zhen_work>	2. what are releng features vs. gentoo features and 2004.2 feature requests
May 17 14:55:33 <zhen_work>	3. scheduling for this release
May 17 14:55:55 <zhen_work>	i have a meeting log, but basically this is what we came up with, and I am seeking approval from the managers.
May 17 14:56:44 <SwifT>	gotta go, sorry :(
May 17 14:56:45 <zhen_work>	releng decided that due to the nature of gentoo, a gentoo release, or at least the part immediately controlled by releng, is more media-centric than goal centric
May 17 14:56:47 <zhen_work>	SwifT: lata
May 17 14:56:53 <--	SwifT has quit ("leaving")
May 17 14:57:07 <zhen_work>	that is, it is releng's responsibility to make sure that we keep our release media up-to-date for the users
May 17 14:57:25 <zhen_work>	this idea spills into the next point, which is features
May 17 14:58:07 <zhen_work>	releng unaminously decided that official (official being those dictated by releng) features should only affect releng media since it is what we have control over
May 17 14:58:26 <zhen_work>	it would be unfair for us to go to the portage team and give them a deadline for feature x
May 17 14:58:58 <zhen_work>	but, for example, if they came to us and said that they are going to have feature x done for release y, we will have absolutely no problem marketing it with our release
May 17 14:59:19 <zhen_work>	we just don't have the manpower and resources to oversee the completion of their feature
May 17 14:59:24 <pauldv>	zhen_work: what about the reverse. At some point before the release you ask all projects to list those features they wish to put into the release. 
May 17 14:59:49 <pauldv>	zhen_work: Guess that answered it
May 17 14:59:50 <zhen_work>	pauldv: good idea, I can be more explicit about that for .3
May 17 15:00:15 <zhen_work>	the idea of a product manager came up (klieber proposed this some time ago)
May 17 15:00:40 <zhen_work>	releng thought that it was a good idea, but it should exist in a more broader project than just releng
May 17 15:00:51 <zhen_work>	scheduling wise, .2 is looking well
May 17 15:01:04 <zhen_work>	we are going to release late july with much of the time being spent in QA
May 17 15:01:13 <zhen_work>	expect livecds to be *much* better for this release
May 17 15:01:35 <zhen_work>	once we get livecds ironed out, we would like to move to biannual livecd releases and quarterly grp/ stage releases
May 17 15:01:51 <zhen_work>	that will help out infra and keep our workload under control
May 17 15:02:01 <zhen_work>	expect that to start happening in 2005
May 17 15:02:40 <zhen_work>	finially, a (rough) list of features for .2 can be found here: http://dev.gentoo.org/~zhen/2004.2_features.txt
May 17 15:02:57 <zhen_work>	so, we seek approval on our philosophy/ plans as well as our features
May 17 15:03:13 <pauldv>	zhen_work: looks great (I need to go now)
May 17 15:03:20 -->	spyderous (spyderous@spyderous.developer.gentoo) has joined #gentoo-meetings
May 17 15:03:20 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o spyderous]
May 17 15:03:43 <zhen_work>	pauldv: lata, thanks
May 17 15:03:43 <tseng>	im out for a bit
May 17 15:03:52 <spyderous>	crap, wrong time zone. =\
May 17 15:04:00 <tseng>	=/
May 17 15:04:06 <spyderous>	forgot i was in central now
May 17 15:04:19 <zhen_work>	tseng: lata
May 17 15:04:20 <avenj>	spyderous: i need votes from you, i'll /msg
May 17 15:04:31 <zhen_work>	if anyone has comments/ questions, please feel free to ask
May 17 15:04:32 <spyderous>	k
May 17 15:04:51 <spyderous>	if anyone could email me a log so far, that'd be really nice
May 17 15:05:26 <avenj>	i think we're pretty much done here actually, i'll post a log to -core in a minute
May 17 15:06:01 <zhen_work>	i'm done with my topic if there are no concerns
May 17 15:06:18 <dmwaters>	back
May 17 15:06:20 <spyderous>	i might be concerned, i'll let ya know once i read the log =)
May 17 15:06:23 <tseng>	yeah zhen, you smell funny
May 17 15:06:24 <dmwaters>	have we opened up for questions?
May 17 15:06:27 <zhen_work>	spyderous: heh, ok
May 17 15:06:29 ---	avenj sets modes [#gentoo-meetings -m]
May 17 15:06:38 <dmwaters>	there we go
May 17 15:06:40 <zhen_work>	tseng: only cause i hang around you
May 17 15:06:57 <tseng>	hush I showered last week
May 17 15:07:16 <cam`>	do we have a come-back date for emu?
May 17 15:07:23 <tseng>	its back?
May 17 15:07:32 <avenj>	cam`: dev.gentoo.org is now toucan
May 17 15:07:38 <Ramereth>	emu is dead, working on recovering /home
May 17 15:07:51 <zhen_work>	Ramereth: what happened?
May 17 15:07:56 <Ramereth>	you tell me
May 17 15:07:57 <zhen_work>	hdd blow up or something?
May 17 15:07:58 <dmwaters>	emu went boom
May 17 15:08:03 <spyderous>	ok, let's have that discussion elsewhere
May 17 15:08:14 *	Ramereth shuts up :)
May 17 15:08:42 <jhuebel|work>	ugh
May 17 15:09:04 <ciaranm>	one of klieber's goats escaped and attacked it
EOF

