19:31 <@g2boojum> Sorry I'm  a bit late; I'm in a meeting right now.
19:31 <@Method> :P
19:31 <@Method> not like much will happen here today
19:31 <@g2boojum> We have no agenda, so the floor is open for general discussion.
19:32 < pappy-> how was the Fosdem?
19:32 <@spyderous> anyone got opinions on our release process?
19:32 < plasmaroo> spyderous: If we can see it I might do :-)
19:32 <@iggy> you mean other than it has burnt out a few developers :)
19:32 <@spyderous> plasmaroo: you can see the process just fine, you just can't see the results yet =P
19:33 < plasmaroo> spyderous: Oh, that, heh. It's working fine :-)
19:33 <@spyderous> i feel like we should have some time after everything is set and final to just do QA
19:34 <@klieber> spyderous: that implies we have QA in the first place
19:34 <@spyderous> klieber: to have QA requires time for it. =P
19:34 <@klieber> chicken/egg
19:34 -!- avenj [avenj@h66-222-104-91.66-222.unk.tds.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:34 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o avenj] by ChanServ
19:35 -!- nakano [~masatomo@62.244.188.66] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:35  * iggy throws eggs at klieber 
19:35 <@spyderous> if it were my choice, the "release date" would be an RC, then whenever the changes between RC's became minimal to nonexistent, we'd release
19:35 <@klieber> I'm surprised we didn't have an RC
19:36 <@klieber> s/RC/RC period/
19:36 <@klieber> we did last time
19:36 <@iggy> it's a little late this time around, we're almost to 2004.1 already :/
19:36 < beejay> erm
19:36 <@klieber> also, I don't think we have any hope of hitting 4 releases this year
19:36 <@spyderous> well there were betas floating around
19:36 <@spyderous> but lots has changed in between each
19:36 < beejay> we had rcs
19:36 <@spyderous> the whole point about RCs is that not much should change
19:37 <@spyderous> speaking of changes, you've got mail beejay
19:39 < beejay> will arrive in my box in about 6 Minutes (cronjob with fetchmail every 15 Minutes ;)
19:40 <@klieber> beejay: are we still targeting 4 releases this year?
19:40 < beejay> I hope so
19:40 <@klieber> beejay: do we really think that's realistic?
19:40 <@spyderous> what's the deal with the second part of the naming scheme anyway?
19:41 <@spyderous> i'd expect 1-4 to match quarters of the calendar, not 0-3 to be like coders
19:41 < Pylon> We should do more releases.  I heard from several persons that it's so evil to install from 1.4 as quite everything want's to recompile if you use GRP.
19:41 < beejay> the delay is caused by lots of catalyst-malfunctions and bugs that appeared in the last stage of release-preparations
19:41 < beejay> (which are fixed now)
19:41 < Pylon> And we should schedule outside of exams-time ;-)
19:42 < Pylon> Which are usually February, March, July and September.
19:42  * beejay has the idea of giving microsoftish/debianish codenames to the releases ;)
19:42 <@spyderous> Gentoo DE
19:42 <@spyderous> Desktop Edition. =P
19:43 < Stuart> why are we doing quarterly releases?
19:45 <@spyderous> Pylon: my exams are december and april, so that's 6 months gone already
19:45 -!- Method [Method@ip68-12-167-163.ok.ok.cox.net] has quit [Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)]
19:46  * g2boojum steps out for a moment; back in a few minutes
19:46 < Ramereth> seems to me like a release twice a year is more realistical and less stressful on devs
19:46  * klieber agrees
19:46 < Stuart> why is making releases stressful?
19:47 < rajiv> i nominate Stuart to lead the next release
19:47 <@klieber> Stuart: not necessarily stressful, but the more time we spend packaging a release, the less time we spend developing gentoo and making it better.
19:47 < Stuart> klieber: sorry if I'm asking stupid questions, but what goes into a release that doesn't go into Gentoo?
19:48 <@klieber> Stuart: grp packages, isos, portage snapshots
19:48 <@klieber> mirror maintenance, etc.
19:48 <@klieber> lots of behind the scenes stuff
19:48 <@spyderous> hopefully most of the "creating the tools to make releases" part will be gone after the next one or so
19:48 <@klieber> oh -- documentation changes. that's a biggy
19:48 < Pylon> It's everytime the same.  When a release is scheduled, devs bump a lot of packages stable, find other problems with core-packages, this will hold the release etc.  But most of the work could be done between the releases.
19:49 < Stuart> why does it take a release to make all of this happen? why isn't all of this part of the day to day work on Gentoo?
19:49  * pappy- grins
19:49 -!- bcowan [~bcowan@dsc03-dav-oh-199-35-245-56.rasserver.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
19:49 <@klieber> Stuart: because we lack any sort of process for structured development imo
19:49 <@klieber> it's very organic
19:49 <@klieber> which isn't necessarily good or bad
19:49  * Stuart agrees
19:49 <@spyderous> well, we don't really have an cluster of boxes of every arch to tinderbox with
19:49 <@klieber> it's just the way we've done stuff
19:50 < Stuart> I guess what I'm getting at is what can we do to make releases less "special"
19:50 <@spyderous> build GRP packages and ISOs every day?
19:51 < plasmaroo> spyderous: I was hoping to set up a cluster with ciaranm's SMP box which he was going to put on eBay otherwise; not sure if anything progressed there.
19:51 < plasmaroo> spyderous: s/cluster/tinderbox/
19:51 < Pylon> spyderous: Why not?  It should be easy to maintain with catalyst.
19:51 <@spyderous> Pylon: who's got the computing time?
19:52 < Ramereth> i'd say, since a lot of developers are still in school, choosing a release schedule that goes around that would work best for us (for the most part)
19:52 < Pylon> spyderous: That's the other question ;)
19:52 < beejay> we should give every user access to the releng boxes so they can decide whether they want a release or not -- that would *really* give choice to them ;D
19:52 <@spyderous> beejay: some users would rather go to store.g.o and just buy a pretty boxed set with a bound handbook
19:53 < Stuart> spyderous: do we have enough kit to build GRP + ISO's daily?
19:54 < plasmaroo> Stuart: ISOs probably, GRP no-no AFAIK.\
19:54 <@spyderous> Stuart: i imagine it would take the better part of 24 hours of straight compiling on a high-end x86 to do that
19:54 < Stuart> anyone know what we would need to be able to build GRP's on a regular basis?
19:55 <@spyderous> and for other, slower arches, forget about it
19:55 < plasmaroo> Stuart: Plus building things daily requires a very high spec server with RAID and ECC RAM and what have you?
19:55 < Stuart> if we can't manage daily, can we manage weekly?
19:55 <@spyderous> where's the hardware?
19:55 < plasmaroo> Stuart: If we have the hardware, yes.
19:56 < beejay> GRP really nono
19:56 < Stuart> plasmaroo: that brings us back to my question - what do we need?
19:56 < beejay> one set for x86 (and only x86) takes 24 hours
19:56 <@avenj> what would be the point of building repeatedly?
19:56 < plasmaroo> Stuart: IMO, we need a server fat enough to support building all the GRP packages. That means RAID, fast CPU, ECC RAM [ and lots of it ] and SMP as well.
19:57 < plasmaroo> avenj: That way ``releases'' are just snapshots, so the whole system is simpler.
19:57 < pappy-> let me ask another stupid question:
19:57 <@avenj> frankly i think we have better uses for that kind of computing power, such as improving infrastructure
19:57 < pappy-> if a user installs a package by hand, he or she wants to use it
19:57 < Stuart> plasmaroo: for x86, that doesn't sound like very much kit these days
19:57 <@klieber> Stuart: shall I send you the bill?
19:57 < pappy-> if portage "pulls in" a package as automatic dependency, is this package removed when the package that automatically pulled it is removed?
19:57 <@klieber> :)
19:58 <@spyderous> not atm, pappy-
19:58 < plasmaroo> Stuart: We don't have any kit for a server down in Telehouse, so if you'd like to buy that too, sure.
19:58 < pappy-> given that it is not needed any more
19:58 <@avenj> plasmaroo: what's the difference between building and extensively testing release stuff when we're planning on a release and building weekly?
19:58 < pappy-> something like a reference count for automatic deps
19:58 < plasmaroo> avenj: For that, there's no point.
19:59  * g2boojum steps back in
19:59 < pappy-> i had a user coming to us at the Fosdem asking for that
19:59 < pappy-> any input from the devs?
19:59 < pappy-> is it wanted/needed/possible?
19:59 <@spyderous> $20 says it's on the roadmap for portage-ng
19:59 <@avenj> pappy-: we already have depclean
19:59 < plasmaroo> pappy-: -> dev-portage@gentoo.org bug?
20:00 < pappy-> avenj: yes, but does depclean get this job done?
20:00 <@avenj> pappy-: portage-ng will have proper reverse dependency support; you probably won't see it until then
20:00 <@avenj> pappy-: it will clean anything that is not in world and is not a dep of something in world
20:00 < pappy-> avenj: i just want to write this guy a mail.
20:00 < pappy-> avenj: you mean depclean?
20:00 <@avenj> pappy-: which sounds like what said user is looking for
20:00 <@avenj> pappy-: yes
20:00 <@iggy> be careful with depclean
20:01 < pappy-> world contains stuff i am installing by hand, right?
20:01 <@iggy> pappy-: tell them to always use -p with it and make sure it's correct
20:01 < pappy-> and all the automatic deps do not show up in the world file...
20:01 < pappy-> sounds reasonable
20:01 < pappy-> iggy: this guy told me that depclean had "funky" issues...
20:01 <@spyderous> avenj: does depclean follow the tree all the way down, do you know? say dep of a dep
20:01 < Stuart> i g2g, but I'll talk to klieber about the bill when I'm back
20:02  * Stuart waves
20:02 <@avenj> spyderous: dunno
20:03 < pappy-> anyway, i gotta write him
20:03 < pappy-> that depclean should do that
20:03 < pappy-> and that portage-ng will have reverse deps
20:03 < pappy-> thanks for clearing this up ;-)
20:03 <@spyderous> might be a good idea to do depclean --pretend, and see whether the output is sane
20:03 < pappy-> spyderous: sure i tell him.
20:03 <@spyderous> oops, iggy said that
20:04 <@spyderous> too many green names
20:04 <@iggy> I'm not green
20:05 < pappy-> whats the status of the gentoo-embedded team at the moment?
20:06 < beejay> iggy: is red, pappy- and spyderous are in some kind of spaghetti bolognese brown...
20:07 < Pylon> Everybody is white here ;)
20:07 < pappy-> beejay: watch it, baby
20:07 < beejay> btw. regarding the release-cycle -- why not maintain a knoppix-like live-cd ?
20:07 < beejay> pappy-: :P
20:07 < plasmaroo> beejay: It's probably what I call ``Ncurses brown'' - the define is orange but it's that weird colour when it's unbold for some reason.
20:08 < beejay> pappy-: I remember it as "6" in qbasic ;)
20:09 < Pylon> beejay: The ppc-team has a LiveCD since a long time.
20:11 <@spyderous> x86 has had betas floating around also
20:12 < beejay> well, what I am thinking is: if we already have a cd constantly maintained, we only have to leave the packages of the cd and put the release-relevant stuff on it
20:16 -!- cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem.staff.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:17 < Pylon> beejay: I think, it's a "just do it"-item if you want and have the time for maintenance.
20:17 < beejay> finally cyber made it's way to us ;)
20:17 < cybersystem> uh?
20:21 <@g2boojum> It's 20:20.  Any other issues that need to be discussed?
20:21 <@g2boojum> (I'm happy to let this discussion continue, but if there's anything else, now's the time.)
20:27 <@g2boojum> Bueller, Bueller?  
20:28 <@klieber> Bueller left a while back.  
20:28 <@klieber> he's sick or something
20:28 <@g2boojum> Well, in that case, let's call it a wrap.  *Grin*
