--> You are now talking on #gentoo-meetings
--> klieber (~klieber@smtp.gentoo.org) has joined #gentoo-meetings
--- ChanServ gives channel operator status to klieber
<g2boojum> Welcome all; thank you for attending.  Today's agenda includes (a) Reorganizing the Gentoo security project, (b) Discussion of GLEP 20, and (c) Open-floor developer discussion.  If anybody involved in GLEP 20 is here, please let me know.  
<g2boojum> klieber: The floor is yours.
<klieber> ok
<klieber> a while back, the managers discussed breaking the security project out into its own TLP and having it be managed by method and myself. 
<klieber> the reason for this is the current security team is a bit disorganized and lacking direction
<klieber> I was hoping to finalize the discussions around this and reach a decision on whether or not to move forward with this
<klieber> looks like we're missing a number of managers, however, so that's going to be difficult.
<Method> iggy, spyderous, daniel, seemant
<Method> seemant is online
<klieber> anyone who is here have comments, questions or concerns about the proposal?
<rajiv_> i am all for it
<Method> the problem we ran in to was that kurt and I thought TLP but the other managers didn't
<klieber> right
--> zhen (~zhen@h57.6.39.162.ip.alltel.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
<klieber> well, some did, some didn't
<Method> right
<Ramereth> why didn't they want it?
* SwifT is in favor; security's too important to leave it wiggling
<Method> anyone here that didn't want to explain?
<johnm> I think its going to be the only way to really structure it.
<tseng> i dont care either way
<klieber> personally, i feel that security needs to be a primary focus of Gentoo and, as such, shoudl have its own TLP with the same weight as the other projects.
<avenj> i just don't see it as being large and broad enough to warrant a tlp
<-- tgall_foo has quit (sterling.freenode.net irc.freenode.net)
<avenj> but i don't see it as a major issue, either
<klieber> avenj: it's something that affects all our users on all arches
<avenj> the structure will work out approximately the same whether we call it a tlp or not
<tseng> exactly, lets not get hung up on symantics
<tseng> if you want, call it a TLP i say
<tseng> just get it done
<klieber> avenj: as long as Method and I are managing it, yes.  But I'd also like to ensure that it's able to stand on its own if method or I step down in the future.
--> carpaski (~carpaski@host161.spe.iit.edu) has joined #gentoo-meetings
--- ChanServ gives channel operator status to carpaski
<klieber> ok, let me ask a different question
<klieber> does anyone object to making the security project a TLP?
<tseng> no.
<avenj> not really, no
<johnm> no.
<SwifT> if the goals and such are clearly defined on the project page; no
<klieber> Azarah, pvdabeel?
<carpaski> ditto, swift.
--> seemant (~seemant@seemant.registered.freenode) has joined #gentoo-meetings
--- ChanServ gives channel operator status to seemant
<klieber> SwifT: good point -- we'd need to do that.
<klieber> SwifT: that's one of the reasons I want some more structure around the project to begin with.
<plasmaroo> Yes; things need to be coordinated and quick; not coordinated and passed-through-lots-of-bureaucrocy. Or am I missing something, like how is this going to be implemented for example?
--> HumpBack (~humpback@humpback.registered.freenode) has joined #gentoo-meetings
<klieber> plasmaroo: it just means we're going to have one (two, actually) points of contacts for resolving issues.  Right now, there's no "point person" to go to regarding security stuff.
<pvdabeel> no objections here
<plasmaroo> klieber: OK, that sounds fine.
<klieber> plasmaroo: in terms of how the sceurity team operates, I'd hope to smooth things out a bit, but I don't think we need to overhaul anything.
<klieber> so, no drastic changes -- just a bit more grease on the skids.
<plasmaroo> klieber: I'm more concerned about the we need to be able to send things out when we're one-man-standing.
<Method> the main point for this was for external representation of the security team, if the internal structure is working fine then there is no need to change it
<SwifT> I wouldn't say "make it a TLP and get the goals and such defined"; I say "get the goals and such defined and make it a TLP" :)
<klieber> plasmaroo: yeah -- one thing we need to work on is recruiting.
<klieber> SwifT: I think the goals are defined.  they just need some polishing.  there is already a security project page
<plasmaroo> klieber: Not really that - I just mean that we need to have redundancy if for example all security people are gone and one person needs to send out a GLSA that's high-risk mega-pronto.
<klieber> we're not changing anything drastically there -- we're just putting some structure and process around it.
<cshields> and recruiting needs to be done cautiously, this is the security of our distro after all
<klieber> plasmaroo: yep
<SwifT> I'm however completely in favor of making it TL eventually as it wouldn't be good PR for us if we didn't find security as important as any other TLP we have
--> tantive (~tantive@tantive.registered.freenode) has joined #gentoo-meetings
<absinthe> i concur
<klieber> ok, it doesn't sound like there are any (strong) objections
<johnm> cshields: I think in many cases we should recruit internally instead of externally, with possible exceptions.
<klieber> how about if I send one more message to the managers list summarizing what was discussed here and ask any objectors to speak out.
<klieber> if nobody does, we'll consider it passed.
--> tgall_foo (~tgall@rchp4.rochester.ibm.com) has joined #gentoo-meetings
<cshields> johnm, good idea
<Method> i wish those that spoke out before would just talk here
<klieber> Method: are they here?
<klieber> I know pauldv had some objections.
<seemant> did I speak out before, by any chance?
<plasmaroo> klieber: Sounds fine. If you could just define what ``sort'' of changes would happen it might help.
<Method> pvdabeel iirc
<klieber> seemant: you were all in favor of it.
<Method> let me check
<seemant> klieber: ok, then I'm still in favour of it
<seemant> coz it sounds good this time 'round
<SwifT> heh
<rajiv_> i have a comment...
<seemant> SwifT: at least I'm being consistent :P
<klieber> rajiv_: shoot
<SwifT> seemant: you sure are, you sure are... :)
<absinthe> sounds great to me; esp with klieber and method running it
<Method> daniel wanted it under QA right?
<rajiv_> re the security team, i hope that we can keep it small. i do not want to see it growing to a point where it takes a long time to get things done
<klieber> Method: I thought drobbins was actually in favor of a TLP.
<klieber> I think pauldv wanted it under QA
<rajiv_> but of course, not too small that  we are understaffed (as i think we are now)
<Method> oh, thats right
<klieber> rajiv_: that's definitely a goal
<klieber> ok -- I think we're done with that topic.
<absinthe> if we put it under QA i think that's too reactive
* klieber picks up the floor and hands it back to g2boojum 
<g2boojum> klieber: Thanks.
<g2boojum> Okay, is anybody involved in GLEP 20 actually present?  I knew that stuart would be unavailable, but I was hoping somebody else would step up.  Anybody?
<g2boojum> Okay, that's not looking good.  Any comments about GLEP 20 that should be passed on?  Azarah?
<Method> wanna just vote and move on?
<Method> it's the /svr directory glep for anyone that doesn't remember
<Method> or /srv
<klieber> I don't particularly care for the idea myself.
* tseng neither.
<klieber> but I can't really articulate why.
<Azarah> i have to agree with klieber 
<g2boojum> Method: Yeah, I think so.  I will note that /srv is optional.
<Method> i don't care, i won't use it personally but it  will have a use flag, srvdir
<absinthe> question
<Azarah> the fhs guys really are going a bit overboard these days
<Method> so as long as it's a choice i'll say aye
<klieber> actually...if it was optional, I wouldn't object all that much.
<klieber> yeah, me too
<klieber> although...
<seemant> I believe in choice, and there are people who would use it, so I'll vote yes
<klieber> it still requires major changes to a number of ebuilds
<cshields> who is going to make sure that service ebuilds support the /srv option?
<Method> klieber: if someone is willing to make those changes..
<Azarah> i was rather thinking this:
<klieber> and going forward, will likely present an additional bug/support burden
<klieber> cshields: exactly
* SwifT doesn't care; users will follow or change - I don't think many will complain
<Azarah> if somebody really wanted to do those changes,
<Azarah> why not flexible?
<Azarah> rather have the user choose if he want /svr, or something else?
<g2boojum> klieber: The GLEP states that /srv would be optional, and not set by default.  Also, the people proposing the GLEP are the same ones who maintain the ebuilds.  Azarah, please go on.
<Azarah> some var in make.conf, or rc.conf?
<tseng> not to start a flame, but i just dont see the point
<avenj> if it's off by default, i vote yes on it
<avenj> i don't like it personally but i agree with seemant, somebody who does like it should have the option
<absinthe> question:  do we want to allow "hot installs" ... i.e. like JSP/J2EE stuff that can be deployed while the service is running?
<klieber> g2boojum: I think more than two people are going to have to be involved when it comes to changing ebuilds.
<Azarah> other silly question:
<Azarah> how many stuff will not handle svr on the fly when it comes to .tbz2?
<g2boojum> Azarah: I'll pass that along.  I happen to agree that an entry in rc.conf makes more sense than a USE flag.
<g2boojum> klieber: Good point.
<Method> tseng: much the same point as moving webdocs from /home/httpd to /var/www.. there was no definative place in the old FHS but now there is
<klieber> boss irq -- bbias
<johnm> I think /srv has some benefits with it being its own root directory, but again, I'm not too keen on it but have no real reason why. apparently /srv is part of the linux file structure standards now though (last time i spoke to stuart about it), so we should at least support it.
<Azarah> g2boojum: could still be a use flag, but why /svr?  I rather would understand /var/svr or something
<Method> Azarah: supposidly the point is that /var is all machine generated, user generated data never had a place
<Azarah> if USE=svr, then use SVR_DIR or something
<g2boojum> Azarah: Good point (wrt tbz2).  I'll add that.  I gather the "why /srv" was because FHS says so, but the GLEP suggests that /srv could actually be a symlink to /var/srv, or something like that.
<Method> thats a good idea
<Azarah> Method: /var used to be both for ages - when did that change?
<g2boojum> Azarah: I think that's what FHS is trying to fix.  One could reasonably argue whether or not it was ever broken.
<Azarah> i really do not care either way - just saying whoever might make it a bit more flexible while they at it
<g2boojum> Okay, since none of the proponents are here, I suggest we move along, and I'll make sure the GLEP authors can read the meeting log.
<seemant> cshields: as far as the changing of the ebuilds, I imagine that the proposers have a plan (I wish they were here), but I reckon the webapps eclass would support it
<seemant> cshields: which conceivably means that a lot of the ebuilds would be a doozy to adapt to the new structure
<g2boojum> Thanks, all.  We never got around to setting +m, so the floor is pretty much already open.
<cshields> seemant, right..  that's my concern
<tseng> thanks, g2boojum 
<dmwaters> hehe
<g2boojum> No burning issues anybody wants to discuss?
<tgall_foo> anyone have any idea when the changes to bugzilla might go into effect? The one I care about is adding ppc64
<johnm> I'd like to just mention how if theres no objections, Id like to put forward another recruitment push for x86-kernel (*-kernel really)
<pvdabeel> tgall_foo: ping sj7trunks about that
<tseng> johnm: thats entirely up to you and iggy imo
<dmwaters> johnm: send me people and I'll process them:)
<johnm> tseng: agreed, just wanted to check ;)
<DarkSpecter> making /var consist of only automatic generated data and moving user data to /srv makes sanse imo, srv is easyly sharable and loosing /var would be easier to recover from (just my .2  )
* dmwaters nods at  tseng  though
<johnm> dmwaters: sounds interesting!
* jforman returns
* jforman returns
<jforman> sorry
* SwifT leaves (sorry - been awake for 36h makes it a bit difficult to pay attention :)
<-- SwifT has quit ("leaving")
<g2boojum> Well, it's 2000 UTC, and I think we can call it a wrap.  I now return you to your regularly scheduled #gentoo-dev.
<-- plasmaroo (~plasmaroo@82-47-128-12.cable.ubr09.brad.blueyonder.co.uk) has left #gentoo-meetings
<-- absinthe (~absinthe@ool-182dd6f2.dyn.optonline.net) has left #gentoo-meetings ("booya")
<g2boojum> Oh, bother!  I forgot to log this meeting.  If somebody would send a copy of the log to gentoo-core@g.o, I would be extremely grateful.

