Jun 14 13:02:42 
<carpaski>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0022.html
Jun 14 13:02:44 
<carpaski>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0027.html
Jun 14 13:02:46 
<carpaski>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0028.html
Jun 14 13:03:40 -->	port001 (~port001@port001.developer.gentoo) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:06:41 -->	tseng (~tseng@tseng.developer.gentoo) has joined 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:06:41 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o tseng]
Jun 14 13:07:09 -->	avenj (avenj@h66-222-104-251.66-222.unk.tds.net) 
has joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:07:09 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o avenj]
Jun 14 13:07:23 <zhen>	hiya avenj, tseng
Jun 14 13:07:27 <tseng>	i mean hi
Jun 14 13:07:29 -->	hansmi (~michael@hansmi.home.forkbomb.ch) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:07:31 <hansmi>	Hello
Jun 14 13:07:32 <avenj>	hi
Jun 14 13:07:45 <spyderous>	it sure is nice to be able to make one of 
these.
Jun 14 13:08:10 <avenj>	no grant yet?
Jun 14 13:08:30 <carpaski>	Is Grant going to be here? His away message 
says he's with the wife?
Jun 14 13:08:50 <carpaski>	s/\?$/./
Jun 14 13:09:04 <SwifT>	you mean he isn't gay?
Jun 14 13:09:24 <tseng>	he was last night..
Jun 14 13:09:29 *	tseng hides.
Jun 14 13:09:48 -->	g2boojum (~grant@smtp.gentoo.org) has joined 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:09:48 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o g2boojum]
Jun 14 13:09:59 <g2boojum>	My apologies, all.  I had networking issues.
Jun 14 13:09:59 <tseng>	:D
Jun 14 13:10:03 <zhen>	heh
Jun 14 13:10:25 <SwifT>	oh, that's how they call it these days
Jun 14 13:10:29 <SwifT>	"networking issues"
Jun 14 13:10:43 *	SwifT stops acting stupid and starts shutting up
Jun 14 13:10:49 *	g2boojum smacks SwifT.  Well, DSL issues, actually.
Jun 14 13:10:57 <g2boojum>	So, where are we?
Jun 14 13:11:01 <zhen>	SwifT: oh, remind me, I have a list of docs 
changes for you
Jun 14 13:11:13 <zhen>	g2boojum: irc, somewhere in the void of space
Jun 14 13:11:22 -->	Kugelfang_ (dvandyk@pD951EE9E.dip.t-dialin.net) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:11:24 <SwifT>	zhen: bgo them; I'm hardly active currently
Jun 14 13:11:30 <zhen>	SwifT: okies
Jun 14 13:11:35 
<carpaski>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0022.html
Jun 14 13:11:36 <zhen>	SwifT: oh, that is right - exams, right?
Jun 14 13:11:37 
<carpaski>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0027.html
Jun 14 13:11:38 
<carpaski>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0028.html
Jun 14 13:11:59 <SwifT>	zhen: yeah
Jun 14 13:12:02 <g2boojum>	carpaski: *Grin*  Okay, that's fair enough.
Jun 14 13:12:10 <zhen>	SwifT: hopefully they are going well
Jun 14 13:12:13 <carpaski>	g2boojum: Hm?
Jun 14 13:12:21 <g2boojum>	carpaski: Do you have any opinions on GLEP 
22?
Jun 14 13:12:32 -->	CoronaLVR (~alex@80.179.39.254.forward.012.net.il) 
has joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:12:39 <g2boojum>	Or anybody else, for that matter.
Jun 14 13:12:57 <zhen>	sounds reasonable to me
Jun 14 13:12:58 -->	dmwaters (dmwaters@dmwaters-gentoo.staff.freenode) 
has joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:12:58 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o dmwaters]
Jun 14 13:13:02 <spyderous>	i'm wondering how much work is required to 
start supporting that
Jun 14 13:13:09 <spyderous>	the defaults, etc
Jun 14 13:13:19 <zhen>	well, stackables need to be rock solid, for one
Jun 14 13:13:31 <carpaski>	It's ok by me. Something will need to be 
done about the transition though.
Jun 14 13:13:33 *	SwifT likes the idea but shifts focus to the portage 
devs
Jun 14 13:13:33 <zhen>	catalyst supports them, but last I tried to 
build using them, portage did not
Jun 14 13:13:54 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Yeah, stackable profiles will be 
helpful, although not essential at the moment.
Jun 14 13:13:55 -->	popsickle (~popsickle@popsickle.developer.gentoo) 
has joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:14:06 <lu_zero>	g2boojum just a problem : how much work it 
does requires to mantain an ebuild sane?
Jun 14 13:14:19 <spyderous>	i think we should require stackable 
profiles to work before we start setting up profiles for this
Jun 14 13:14:25 <zhen>	i agree
Jun 14 13:14:29 <g2boojum>	carpaski: I thought I'd written the GLEP to 
be backwards-compatible w/ what we have now.  What transition am I 
missing?
Jun 14 13:14:34 ---	avenj sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +m]
Jun 14 13:14:40 <carpaski>	Stacking profiles should work perfectly fine 
in the 51 series.
Jun 14 13:14:45 ---	avenj sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v lu_zero]
Jun 14 13:14:55 <carpaski>	g2boojum: Maybe I missed something. One sec, 
I'll read again.
Jun 14 13:14:58 <g2boojum>	lu_zero: Huh?  Parse error, I think.  I'm 
not sure what you're asking.
Jun 14 13:15:19 <lu_zero>	g2boojum the problem is that we have to 
increase the combination we support
Jun 14 13:15:21 <carpaski>	g2boojum: yeah, I guess it is. I was 
thinking in the opposite direction.
Jun 14 13:15:23 <lu_zero>	and that means:
Jun 14 13:15:35 <spyderous>	g2boojum: one question about this, though: 
who's going to doing all the keywording? seems like we'd need a lot 
more people testing etc
Jun 14 13:16:04 *	lu_zero was concerned about that too
Jun 14 13:16:25 ---	tseng sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o zhen]
Jun 14 13:16:25 ---	avenj sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o zhen]
Jun 14 13:16:37 <zhen>	thankee
Jun 14 13:16:50 <g2boojum>	spyderous: The people working on that 
branch.  Right now I have about 10 people who are helping to put 
together freebsd- and openbsd-based systems.  It's a different issue, 
but my view is that if the keyword is unmaintained, then we ditch it.
Jun 14 13:17:24 <spyderous>	ok, so no additional work for non-bsd people
Jun 14 13:18:01 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Right.  Although, just like w/ 
alpha or sparc, we would appreciate it if people didn't mark something 
stable on a *bsd w/o testing.
Jun 14 13:18:24 <lu_zero>	g2boojum how to express that btw?
Jun 14 13:18:25 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v Tester_]
Jun 14 13:18:38 -->	kanaka (~joelm@kanaka.developer.gentoo) has joined 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:18:43 <Tester_>	what about packages that require bash or 
gmake to build.. will those deps have to be explicit?
Jun 14 13:19:25 -->	Method|Work (~Method@Method.developer.gentoo) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:19:25 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o 
Method|Work]
Jun 14 13:19:30 <Method|Work>	oops, did it start already?
Jun 14 13:19:36 -->	solar (solar@multimode.oc12.net) has joined 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:19:42 <g2boojum>	Tester_: No.  Portage requires bash, and 
we'll add gmake to the default profile.  In fact, right now our version 
of portage aliases make=gmake.
Jun 14 13:19:59 <g2boojum>	Method|Work: Yep.  We're discussing the new 
keywords GLEP (22)
Jun 14 13:20:08 <Tester_>	ok, so a mostly gnu userland stays in the 
base for everyone..
Jun 14 13:20:10 <Method|Work>	oh, ok
Jun 14 13:20:13 <g2boojum>	lu_zero: I'm sorry, I got lost.  How to 
express what, bty?
Jun 14 13:20:26 <lu_zero>	g2boojum ARCH="x86 ppc" USERLAND="bsd gnu" 
etc can't cover something that doesn't work on bsdppc but on gnuppc?
Jun 14 13:20:29 <carpaski>	(That BSD patch will be in cvs and _pre11 
shortly)
Jun 14 13:21:00 <g2boojum>	Tester_: Not quite, but sed, make, tar, and 
a couple of others will be the same.
Jun 14 13:21:04 <g2boojum>	carpaski: Thanks!
Jun 14 13:21:50 <g2boojum>	lu_zero: the keywords would be more 
explicit: "x86-fbsd" meaning a freebsd kernel and userland on x86.
Jun 14 13:21:56 <Tester_>	g2boojum: ok great.. that was my only problem 
with this glep ;)
Jun 14 13:22:09 <zhen>	g2boojum: could we go ahead and make this glep 
conditional on working stackable profiles?
Jun 14 13:22:10 <g2boojum>	lu_zero: They're not separated into 
different variables anymore.
Jun 14 13:22:18 <lu_zero>	g2boojum so the keywording will be an 
aggregate
Jun 14 13:22:19 <zhen>	(which in itself should be a glep)
Jun 14 13:22:54 <lu_zero>	that means we can cover eg, perl script as 
*-*-*-* ?
Jun 14 13:23:07 <spyderous>	i don't see any new glep required for that. 
just modify the current
Jun 14 13:23:24 <spyderous>	unless you're saying the whole concept of 
stackables should have been one
Jun 14 13:23:25 <zhen>	spyderous: for implementation of the profiles 
perhaps
Jun 14 13:23:28 *	lu_zero is interested in how to express complex 
combination
Jun 14 13:23:32 <g2boojum>	zhen: We can make it depend on a version of 
portage w/ stackable profiles, if that's what you mean.  I'd rather not 
make it an explicit part of the GLEP.
Jun 14 13:23:46 <zhen>	spyderous: it should have, and when we decide to 
change over completely, it might be a good idea to
Jun 14 13:24:05 <spyderous>	lu_zero: did you read the "reasonable 
defaults" and "kernel fragments" section of the glep?
Jun 14 13:24:15 <lu_zero>	spyderous yes
Jun 14 13:24:15 <g2boojum>	lu_zero:"ppc-fbsd-gnu-glibc" is about as 
complicated as I would expect it to get.
Jun 14 13:24:21 <zhen>	g2boojum: i would really rather that we do - why 
create a bunch of temporary non-stacked profiles?
Jun 14 13:25:04 <zhen>	because then we are redoing profile work when 
stackables do in fact come online
Jun 14 13:26:09 <g2boojum>	zhen: What I'm saying is that I have no 
problem using them from the outset (if somebody will help me learn how 
to use them), it's just that I see stackable profiles as a different 
issue than they keywording proposal.
Jun 14 13:26:20 <g2boojum>	s/they/the/
Jun 14 13:26:54 <spyderous>	i see that a prerequisite of the keywording 
proposal not resulting in an "explosion" of profiles to be the stacking
Jun 14 13:27:02 <spyderous>	s/to be/is
Jun 14 13:27:38 <zhen>	same here, and if it is written in to the glep, 
there is insurance of that
Jun 14 13:27:48 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Unless I misunderstand how 
stackable profiles work, the explosion happens regardless.  There would 
still be just as many profiles, it's just that each profile can 
import/include a base version, which makes the profiles easier to 
maintain.
Jun 14 13:27:53 <zhen>	g2boojum: not saying that you won't do it, but 
it is nice to have it in writing in case someone else picks up the 
work, etc
Jun 14 13:28:17 -->	jforman (jforman@jforman.developer.gentoo) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:28:29 <zhen>	g2boojum: there will still be a lot of 
make.profiles, but the duplication of profile information is cut down 
dramatically
Jun 14 13:28:36 <zhen>	right now each profile has what, 6 or 7 files?
Jun 14 13:28:49 <zhen>	each stackable profile would almost never 
require all 6 or 7
Jun 14 13:29:02 <zhen>	and even if they do, there are usually not 
wholesale changes
Jun 14 13:29:02 <g2boojum>	k
Jun 14 13:29:15 <g2boojum>	Any other discussion on this issue?
Jun 14 13:29:44 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +o seemant]
Jun 14 13:29:48 <seemant>	thanks grant
Jun 14 13:29:52 ---	seemant sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v seemant]
Jun 14 13:29:55 ---	seemant sets modes [#gentoo-meetings -o seemant]
Jun 14 13:30:03 <lu_zero>	g2boojum just one more
Jun 14 13:30:08 <seemant>	ok, the concern that I had was related to 
something rac had said on the mailing lists about this
Jun 14 13:30:12 <lu_zero>	any draft about using that with use?
Jun 14 13:30:32 <g2boojum>	ciaranm: Adds a worry that people will 
suddenly expect a mips-xbsd port.
Jun 14 13:31:06 <seemant>	g2boojum: I'm looking for rac's post, it was 
pretty enlightening
Jun 14 13:31:15 <g2boojum>	ciaranm also suggests adding a note that all 
combinations may not be available.
Jun 14 13:31:17 <zhen>	g2boojum: we can always say "no way" ;)
Jun 14 13:31:18 <seemant>	allow me a few more minutes please, but go 
ahead to the next agenda item
Jun 14 13:31:20 <g2boojum>	seemant: Thanks.
Jun 14 13:31:39 <g2boojum>	zhen: That's my view, as well.
Jun 14 13:31:43 <spyderous>	oh, one last question about this: is there 
a way to specify all keywords of a given arch, then except some? for 
example, "ppc* -ppc-fbsd-gnu-fbsd"
Jun 14 13:31:53 <seemant>	oh crap I don't have it :(
Jun 14 13:32:02 <seemant>	I'd deleted my -core archive a couple of 
months ago
Jun 14 13:32:15 <seemant>	anyone else have -core/-dev archives they can 
search?
Jun 14 13:32:18 <g2boojum>	seemant: Was this the e-mail suggesting 
keeping a separate database?
Jun 14 13:32:21 <lu_zero>	seemant sure
Jun 14 13:32:26 <lu_zero>	tell me the subject
Jun 14 13:32:32 <seemant>	g2boojum: that sounds exceedingly familiar, 
yes
Jun 14 13:32:32 <Tester_>	seemant: yea?
Jun 14 13:32:48 <seemant>	lu_zero: I honestly don't know subject, but 
it was related to this glep
Jun 14 13:32:55 <Tester_>	seemant: want me to forward to you ?
Jun 14 13:33:13 <seemant>	Tester_: yes please
Jun 14 13:33:16 <carpaski>	As a note: Stacking should work (as desired) 
in all versions >=2.0.50-r7.
Jun 14 13:33:16 <g2boojum>	spyderous: We haven't really thought about 
it.  At the moment, no.  If it turns out to be particularly useful, 
then I'm sure we can add it.
Jun 14 13:33:22 <g2boojum>	carpaski: Thanks
Jun 14 13:33:45 <g2boojum>	carpaski: Do you remember rac's post that 
seemant is referring to?
Jun 14 13:33:48 <seemant>	g2boojum: as I recall, rac's concern was that 
it's a discrete, but complex, set of valid nodes on the graph
Jun 14 13:33:51 <spyderous>	g2boojum: i was just talking to luca about 
that in query
Jun 14 13:34:08 <seemant>	g2boojum: ie, not every combination is valid, 
and furthermore, some combinations might actually be in conflict
Jun 14 13:34:35 <Tester_>	seemant: sent
Jun 14 13:34:48 <seemant>	Tester_: merci
Jun 14 13:34:48 <g2boojum>	seemant: He was exactly right.  That's why 
the current GLEP is much more specific in the keywords.
Jun 14 13:35:37 <g2boojum>	seemant: Each keyword in the new GLEP 
specifies a specific set of arch/userland/libc/kernel, w/o wildcards.
Jun 14 13:36:41 <g2boojum>	seemant: It's just that if one of the above 
terms is _not_ mentioned, then a very specific default is assumed.  
That way an invalid combination shouldn't happen.  (Unless somebody 
creates a new, really dumb keyword)
Jun 14 13:36:59 *	Tester_ wonders how that affect use flags.. will 
there be wildcards? or kernel-fbsd kernel-linux use flags?
Jun 14 13:37:00 <seemant>	g2boojum: ah ok
Jun 14 13:37:18 <seemant>	g2boojum: has rac sealed his approval (just 
curious)?
Jun 14 13:37:28 <seemant>	g2boojum: I ask, because he had a brilliant 
insight with that email
Jun 14 13:37:50 <g2boojum>	seemant: Haven't heard from him, although 
I've seen him since the GLEP was posted.
Jun 14 13:38:18 <lu_zero>	I have to go, I'll be back in 30min
Jun 14 13:38:21 <g2boojum>	Tester_: Not if I can help it.
Jun 14 13:38:56 <g2boojum>	Tester_: Lot's of new virtuals, though, most 
likely.
Jun 14 13:39:15 <g2boojum>	Okay, let's come back to this later.   I do 
want to get to the other two GLEPs.
Jun 14 13:39:18 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v vapier]
Jun 14 13:39:22 <g2boojum>	vapier: Here?
Jun 14 13:39:25 <seemant>	g2boojum: rac's here
Jun 14 13:39:32 <vapier>	maybe
Jun 14 13:39:59 <g2boojum>	vapier: The floor is yours, then.
Jun 14 13:41:07 <vapier>	umm ok
Jun 14 13:41:22 <vapier>	dont really know what to say since it's pretty 
much all in the glep already
Jun 14 13:41:50 <vapier>	the only weak point of the GLEP seems to be 
the usage of XML ... but since no one has offered an alternative ...
Jun 14 13:41:53 -->	rac (~rac@rac.developer.gentoo) has joined 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:42:02 <g2boojum>	Any body have problems w/ the GLEP, or 
should we just ask for a vote now?
Jun 14 13:42:05 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v rac]
Jun 14 13:42:33 -->	roger55 (~roger@roger55.developer.gentoo) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:42:37 <seemant>	vapier: tangential question: would this help 
fix the current conundrum with tbz2's and uid/gid creation?
Jun 14 13:42:43 <vapier>	yes
Jun 14 13:42:50 <seemant>	vapier: can you explain a bit about that?
Jun 14 13:42:52 <vapier>	at least according to spec
Jun 14 13:42:53 <spyderous>	the glep didn't say anywhere that the 
accounts files would specify which packages "own" which accounts, did 
it?
Jun 14 13:43:12 <vapier>	spyderous: that's a runtime calculation
Jun 14 13:43:25 <carpaski>	The XML is simple, and I'm fine with it and 
the glep... as long as someone else does the parser. :)
Jun 14 13:43:28 <seemant>	vapier: coz I (for one :P) am not sure why 
tbz2's plus {u,g}id is a problem currently, I just know that it is
Jun 14 13:43:29 <vapier>	the only binding is whether you list the 
account name in the EUSER/EGROUP file
Jun 14 13:43:46 <vapier>	seemant: it *should* work assuming nick 
*writes it correctly* :)
Jun 14 13:43:54 <carpaski>	The variables would be put in the cache as 
auxdbkeys. So you could query for it with an aux_get call. Portage will 
understand and report it.
Jun 14 13:44:12 <vapier>	i offered no reference implementation because 
python is a very weak language for me
Jun 14 13:44:20 *	carpaski kicks vapier.
Jun 14 13:45:01 <vapier>	seemant: tbz2's is a problem because 
enew{user,group} is most often used in pkg_setup which is not called 
while using a binary package
Jun 14 13:45:29 <carpaski>	;)
Jun 14 13:45:30 *	carpaski wonders if he was commenting about python or 
his skills in python.
Jun 14 13:45:30 <carpaski>	The code should be fairly easy with a parser 
in hand.
Jun 14 13:45:32 <vapier>	a subtle ugly point which this should take 
care of
Jun 14 13:45:33 <spyderous>	vapier: the problem i saw is that once a 
package requiring a user is pulled, the user might remain in the 
accounts files, and it's a fair bit of work to verify whether it's 
still needed at that point
Jun 14 13:45:56 <vapier>	spyderous: thats the point of the user helper 
script
Jun 14 13:46:07 <vapier>	you can unmerge a package but that package 
might have created more files under that owner
Jun 14 13:46:09 <seemant>	vapier: I see
Jun 14 13:46:14 <vapier>	so simply deleting the user is incorrect imho
Jun 14 13:46:20 <seemant>	vapier: and your glep would fix this how then?
Jun 14 13:46:29 <vapier>	did you read the GLEP ? :p
Jun 14 13:46:32 <seemant>	(note, I know I'm off on a tangent)
Jun 14 13:46:41 <vapier>	fix what ? tbz2s/users ?
Jun 14 13:47:14 <seemant>	vapier: yeah, I'm sorta unclear on when the 
accounts get created/deleted during an emerge
Jun 14 13:47:30 <g2boojum>	seemant: The ebuild would contain new 
variables that would lead to portage creating the groups if necessary, 
instead of explicitly calling a function.
Jun 14 13:47:41 <vapier>	it's unclear because developers arent clear on 
how to do it
Jun 14 13:47:54 <vapier>	by using this GLEP, developers dont have to 
know the details (which many do not anyways)
Jun 14 13:47:57 <vapier>	we let portage care about the details
Jun 14 13:48:01 <carpaski>	Changes have already been made in 51 that 
ease integration into (read: already break) the metadata cache.
Jun 14 13:48:04 -->	cam` (cam@84.97.211.189) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:48:05 <vapier>	and thus nick care about the details
Jun 14 13:48:13 <seemant>	vapier: fair enough
Jun 14 13:48:15 <seemant>	g2boojum: thanks
Jun 14 13:48:33 <carpaski>	seemant: The creation/deletion time would be 
determined by the type of merge... binary or source. Before you'd use 
them, would be the target time.
Jun 14 13:48:47 <rac>	would it be possible/valuable to add to GLEP 22 a 
formalized and perhaps more expandable than what we have now notion of 
"stability"?
Jun 14 13:50:02 <rac>	we now have arch ~arch -arch, which i mapped to 
green/yellow/red in my traffic light analogy, and i can see a potential 
benefit to having another "color" representing "we have no reason to 
believe this package won't work, but no real certainty that it does", 
to make a better situation than the current "missing keyword implies 
something really scary" situation
Jun 14 13:50:10 <seemant>	carpaski: roger
Jun 14 13:50:41 <g2boojum>	rac: I thought the current situation was 
"missing keyword implies it won't work"?
Jun 14 13:50:54 <rac>	g2boojum: yes, and i think the current situation 
is rather suboptimal in that regard
Jun 14 13:52:18 <g2boojum>	rac: My personal opinion is that I would 
rather see such a discussion as a separate GLEP, since it's really a 
separate topic, but I'll certainly entertain arguments to the contrary. 
  Can you wait on it for a moment, though?
Jun 14 13:52:27 <vapier>	in other words, KEYWORDS="x86 -ppc" should be 
different from KEYWORDS="x86"
Jun 14 13:52:39 <g2boojum>	I'd like to ask for a vote on GLEP 27, 
first, if nobody objects.
Jun 14 13:53:35 *	seemant has no vote, but if it matters I vote yes
Jun 14 13:53:56 *	g2boojum has no vote either, but also votes yes  
*Grin*
Jun 14 13:54:31 <g2boojum>	avenj, Method|Work, spyderous, SwifT, tseng 
?  We already have a "yes" from carpaski, from what I can tell.
Jun 14 13:54:38 <g2boojum>	Oh, and zhen.
Jun 14 13:54:41 <carpaski>	Yep. :)
Jun 14 13:54:43 *	SwifT has a vote and uses it to say "yes"
Jun 14 13:54:52 *	zhen votes yes
Jun 14 13:54:52 <--	lu_zero has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed 
out))
Jun 14 13:55:31 <spyderous>	yeah
Jun 14 13:55:56 <g2boojum>	Going...
Jun 14 13:56:01 <g2boojum>	Going...
Jun 14 13:56:09 <g2boojum>	Gone
Jun 14 13:56:37 <g2boojum>	Okay, I'll ask any managers to disagree to 
e-mail me later, then.
Jun 14 13:56:38 <tseng>	yes.
Jun 14 13:56:50 <vapier>	uNF
Jun 14 13:57:10 <g2boojum>	Okay, one more GLEP to go today.  Any 
discussion about GLEP 28?
Jun 14 13:57:18 <Method|Work>	yes
Jun 14 13:57:29 <Method|Work>	thta was to the last thing
Jun 14 13:57:36 *	Method|Work is scrolling
Jun 14 13:57:40 <g2boojum>	Method|Work: I assumed.  *Grin*
Jun 14 13:58:34 <g2boojum>	In that case, may I have a vote on GLEP 28, 
then?
Jun 14 13:58:37 <spyderous>	on glep 28, i think the timeout period 
should start when/if it's accepted, rather than going backwards
Jun 14 13:58:39 <carpaski>	I don't imagine there'd be much discussion.
Jun 14 13:58:52 <spyderous>	that gives authors time to react to this
Jun 14 13:58:58 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Hmmm?
Jun 14 13:59:01 <zhen>	let's vote
Jun 14 13:59:01 <--	vapier (UserBah@wh0rd.org) has left #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 13:59:11 <g2boojum>	spyderous: You mean from when this GLEP is 
accepted?
Jun 14 13:59:15 <spyderous>	the 60 days / six months should start 
today, for example, on old gleps, rather than 11 months in the past. 
yes
Jun 14 13:59:28 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Oh, I'm completely fine with that.
Jun 14 13:59:52 <spyderous>	also this is really nitpicky but should be 
consistent in timing, either all in days or all in months
Jun 14 14:00:09 <SwifT>	I'm fine with it either
Jun 14 14:00:13 <spyderous>	either "two and six months" or "60 and 180 
days"
Jun 14 14:00:49 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Okay, I'm willing to fix.
Jun 14 14:00:54 <spyderous>	given that, i'm all for it
Jun 14 14:01:35 <g2boojum>	zhen, Nick, tseng, Method|Work, ...?
Jun 14 14:01:41 <SwifT>	go for it
Jun 14 14:01:42 <tseng>	yes please.
Jun 14 14:02:36 <zhen>	g2boojum: yes
Jun 14 14:02:47 <carpaski>	yes
Jun 14 14:03:20 <g2boojum>	Thanks, all.  Let's come back to GLEP 22, 
then.  Any comments about rac's proposal to add a "might-work" keyword?
Jun 14 14:03:23 <--	abhishek has quit (Client Quit)
Jun 14 14:03:51 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v ciaranm]
Jun 14 14:03:55 <zhen>	is it really that necessary?
Jun 14 14:03:58 <spyderous>	it was always my understanding that lack of 
a keyword meant might-work
Jun 14 14:04:00 <SwifT>	why not just inform people how they can check 
if it works or not; it doesn't really provide an extra to the ebuilds
Jun 14 14:04:24 <zhen>	i understand how is is trying to combat 
ambiguity, but it is rather common knowledge that no-keyword means 
crapshoot
Jun 14 14:04:34 <ciaranm>	my objections: a) it discourages keywording 
bugs, b) it means more work for arch maintainers
Jun 14 14:04:51 <g2boojum>	rac: Feel free to jump in here.
Jun 14 14:04:53 <ciaranm>	right now it's trivial to test an unkeyworded 
package and get a keyword added
Jun 14 14:05:01 <zhen>	yep
Jun 14 14:05:13 <rac>	it is not trivial, you have to copy ebuilds to 
overlays
Jun 14 14:05:21 <ciaranm>	no you don't. see package.keywords
Jun 14 14:05:53 <ciaranm>	it's even easier if you're using .51, since 
there's the */~* thing as well
Jun 14 14:06:25 <ciaranm>	see bug 52206
Jun 14 14:06:27 <rac>	nothing in the portage man page describes how to 
use package.keywords to accept unkeyworded things, as far as i can see
Jun 14 14:06:50 <ciaranm>	it should be in the arch FAQs
Jun 14 14:07:00 <carpaski>	* == match any stable keyword,  ~* any 
stable/testing keyword
Jun 14 14:07:03 <--	seemant has quit (Read error: 60 (Operation timed 
out))
Jun 14 14:07:28 <spyderous>	it could be helpful to document that some 
more in the portage man page, though
Jun 14 14:07:40 <rac>	* = if it's stable on any arch, take it here too?
Jun 14 14:07:46 <ciaranm>	rac: correct
Jun 14 14:08:12 <ciaranm>	in .50 you have to guess and do x86 amd64 
sparc mips etc in package.keywords, which is mildly tedious
Jun 14 14:08:38 -->	lu_zero (~lu_zero@ppp-146-181.25-151.libero.it) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:09:01 <rac>	well, i thought that under grant's section on 
"reasonable defaults" would be a good place to address what the default 
is for packages about which we have neither any positive nor negative 
information concerning
Jun 14 14:09:54 <ciaranm>	if it hasn't been explicitly marked as 
working, it *has* to be treated as not allowed unless explicitly 
overridden by the user. anything else would be a nightmare for arch 
maintainership
Jun 14 14:10:02 <g2boojum>	rac: Write up a patch for the GLEP, if you 
would, and we can discuss it in two weeks?
Jun 14 14:10:10 <ciaranm>	we'd start getting bugs about all those 
packages which we *know* don't work but aren't yet -
Jun 14 14:11:08 -->	seemant (~seemant@seemant.developer.gentoo) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:11:20 <rac>	g2boojum: it appears that there will be 
considerable opposition, and i don't think i can eliminate said 
opposition within two weeks, and i don't want to do anything to drag 
down your GLEP. i withdraw and shut up now
Jun 14 14:11:56 <g2boojum>	rac: Okay, thanks.  Please do consider 
writing up a new GLEP, then.
Jun 14 14:12:08 <g2boojum>	In that case, can we vote on GLEP 22?
Jun 14 14:12:52 <zhen>	g2boojum: are we going to go ahead with the 
stackable profiles dependency?
Jun 14 14:13:22 <g2boojum>	zhen: Sure.
Jun 14 14:13:28 <carpaski>	Do you want a GLEP on that for documentation 
or for another particular purpose?
Jun 14 14:14:05 <zhen>	g2boojum: GLEP on stackable profiles ... well, 
when we implement it, it would be nice to have a glep
Jun 14 14:14:12 <zhen>	but I do not think that we absolutely need one 
atm
Jun 14 14:15:12 <zhen>	so, let's vote ;)
Jun 14 14:17:42 <g2boojum>	So, just to be clear, I'll be changing the 
profiles portion of the GLEP to read that new profiles _will_ use 
stackable profiles to keep maintainance of the new profiles sane.
Jun 14 14:18:09 <g2boojum>	zhen: feel free to be the first...
Jun 14 14:18:36 <zhen>	sounds good to me
Jun 14 14:18:41 *	zhen raises his hand for yes
Jun 14 14:18:43 <carpaski>	Agreed.
Jun 14 14:18:50 <spyderous>	sure
Jun 14 14:19:02 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +v seemant]
Jun 14 14:19:07 <seemant>	thanks
Jun 14 14:19:10 <SwifT>	yes
Jun 14 14:19:17 <g2boojum>	seemant: My pleasure.
Jun 14 14:19:47 <seemant>	g2boojum: I don't see cascading profiles as 
truly necessary, but it would certainly make it less of a hassle to add 
the new ones
Jun 14 14:20:21 <g2boojum>	seemant: I agree.
Jun 14 14:20:41 <g2boojum>	Hmmm, does anybody remember how to set -m?
Jun 14 14:20:58 -->	pYrania_ (~pyrania@pYrania.developer.gentoo) has 
joined #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:21:16 <seemant>	carpaski: just curious, when does the 51 
series hit stable across the board?
Jun 14 14:21:33 <seemant>	carpaski: because I'd like to time the 
cascading profiles going into active duty for a few days after that
Jun 14 14:21:57 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings -m]
Jun 14 14:21:57 ---	g2boojum sets modes [#gentoo-meetings -tings]
Jun 14 14:21:57 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +t]
Jun 14 14:21:57 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +n]
Jun 14 14:21:57 ---	ChanServ sets modes [#gentoo-meetings +s]
Jun 14 14:22:52 <g2boojum>	The last item on the agenda is the general 
developer discussion.  Anybody have any issues that need to be raised?
Jun 14 14:23:45 <jforman>	make sure to email sj7trunks about your LWE 
info if you are going
Jun 14 14:23:57 <g2boojum>	Going...
Jun 14 14:24:07 <jforman>	it is last minute, but we need a pretty 
concrete count before we make out a schedul of dev's to man the booth
Jun 14 14:24:39 <g2boojum>	jforman: Thanks.  Anything else?
Jun 14 14:25:40 <--	pYrania has quit (Nick collision from services.)
Jun 14 14:25:43 ---	pYrania_ is now known as pYrania
Jun 14 14:25:55 <g2boojum>	Okay, in that case we'll go ahead and 
adjourn.  Did anybody log the meeting?  I came in late.
Jun 14 14:26:05 <ferringb>	I've got logs if needed.
Jun 14 14:26:07 *	ciaranm has logs
Jun 14 14:26:19 <carpaski>	We didn't start until you came in anyway.
Jun 14 14:26:57 <pYrania>	ehr
Jun 14 14:27:06 <--	rac (~rac@rac.developer.gentoo) has left 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:27:12 <pYrania>	what about business cards?
Jun 14 14:27:13 <g2boojum>	Cool.
Jun 14 14:27:36 <g2boojum>	ferringb: Since you spoke up first, would 
you send a log of the meeting to gentoo-core@gentoo.org, please?
Jun 14 14:27:37 ---	Kugelfang_ is now known as Kugelfang
Jun 14 14:27:41 <pYrania>	do we have new ones, or don't we?
Jun 14 14:27:48 <--	SwifT has quit ("leaving")
Jun 14 14:27:49 <ferringb>	g2boojum: k
Jun 14 14:27:54 <g2boojum>	ferringb: Thanks!
Jun 14 14:28:15 *	jforman heads out
Jun 14 14:28:16 <--	jforman (jforman@jforman.developer.gentoo) has left 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:28:23 <--	Kugelfang (dvandyk@Kugelfang.developer.gentoo) has 
left #gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:28:27 <--	ciaranm 
(~ciaranm@ciaranm-gentoo.active.supporter.pdpc) has left 
#gentoo-meetings
Jun 14 14:28:59 <g2boojum>	Thanks, all.
Jun 14 14:29:15 <--	Chainsaw (~friendlyg@Chainsaw.developer.gentoo) has 
left #gentoo-meetings ("Poof.")
Jun 14 14:29:20 <--	roger55 (~roger@roger55.developer.gentoo) has left 
#gentoo-meetings ("off to bed.")
