--- Log opened Mon Jul 05 17:38:43 2004
--- Log opened Mon Jul 19 17:54:23 2004
17:54 Irssi: #gentoo-meetings: Total of 15 nicks [3 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 12 normal]
17:55 @g2boojum> klieber: Would you mind moderating the meeting?  I need to call the hospital, and I suspect I'm going to be busy for quite some time.
17:55  jforman> i can yell at people too 
17:55  dostrow> :)
17:55 + carpaski [~carpaski@carpaski.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
17:56 ~ ChanServ set +o carpaski on #gentoo-meetings
17:56 @g2boojum> jforman: "moderate" != "yell". *Grin*
17:56  ChrisWhite> jforman: would you add in shooting for special service?
17:56  jforman> g2boojum: symantics
17:56  dostrow> g2boojum: where is the fun in that?
17:57  ChrisWhite> what?  meetings are fun?
17:58  dostrow> if you are allowed to yell at people usually there is some fun
17:58 + dragonheart [~dan@ppp52-132.lns1.adl2.internode.on.net] joined #gentoo-meetings
17:58  ChrisWhite> we need dmwaters in here with her whole whip cracking deal
17:58  beejay> Mo Jul 19 19:58:44 CEST 2004
17:59 + kloeri [bryan@kloeri.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
17:59  ChrisWhite> kloeri: lo
17:59  kloeri> hi ChrisWhite 
18:00 @klieber> g2boojum: sure
18:00 @klieber> just got back
18:00 @klieber> ok, so...
18:00 * klieber checks the agenda.
18:00 @klieber> iirc, we only have one item for today.
18:01  dostrow> 2 iirc
18:01  dostrow> nope only 1 I lied
18:01 * dostrow likes being the problem child
18:02 @klieber> glep 22 and macosx
18:02 @klieber> who wants to start?
18:02 @Method|Work> I LUV MACOSX
18:02 @Method|Work> maybe peiter should be here
18:02  dostrow> LOL
18:02 @klieber> is he the one that requested the agenda item?
18:02  dostrow> I'm going to be representing the macos group
18:02 @klieber> ah, ok
18:02 @klieber> dostrow: ok, so...hit it.
18:02  ChrisWhite> Method|Work, always showing the best in professionalism
18:02 @Method|Work> dostrow: oh, ok
18:02 + axxo [~axxo@axxo.registered] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:02  jforman> klieber: shouldnt you go +m ? so we shut up
18:02 + lisa [~lisa@lisa.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:02 ~ klieber set +m on #gentoo-meetings
18:02 ~ klieber set -tings on #gentoo-meetings
18:02 ~ ChanServ set +t on #gentoo-meetings
18:02 ~ ChanServ set +n on #gentoo-meetings
18:02 ~ ChanServ set +s on #gentoo-meetings
18:03 ~ klieber set +v dostrow on #gentoo-meetings
18:03 @klieber> dostrow: still with us?
18:03 + pvdabeel [~pvdabeel@pvdabeel.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:03 ~ ChanServ set +o pvdabeel on #gentoo-meetings
18:03 @Method|Work> theres our little macos hunny bunny
18:04 @pvdabeel> dostrow will be substituting for me tonight
18:04 +dostrow> thanks klieber
18:04 @pvdabeel> will be here though
18:04 @klieber> what are we discussing, btw?  GLEP 22 and MacOSX, I know, but what specifically?
18:04 + eradicator [~eradicato@eradicator.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:05 +dostrow> wheather or not the macos keyword is or is not subject to glep 22
18:05 @Method|Work> klieber: how to not make our tree stupid/lame with idiotic keywords afaik
18:05 +dostrow> and here is what is basically boils down to for me
18:06 + langthang [~tvan@langthang.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:06 +dostrow> as far as I read glep 22 it is for architectures that have multiple arch / gcc / kernel choices
18:06 @Method|Work> that isn't correct but continue
18:06 @klieber> dostrow: that's not how I read it
18:06 @klieber> but yeah, go ahead.
18:07 +dostrow> if we were talking a full darwin port I would agree that we would need to conform to it, but specifically with OS X if we have only one choice in all 3, ppc, apple-gcc, and the apple mach kernel
18:08 +dostrow> other wise we would need to redo all the ARCH's, like x86-linux-gcc
18:08 +dostrow> for example
18:08 @pvdabeel> CHOST keywording
18:10 +dostrow> direct from the glep A fully-specified keyword would look like "ARCH-KERNEL-USERLAND-LIBC", so, for example, "ppc-fbsd-gnu-glibc" would indicate a Gentoo system corresponding to a ppc architecture running the FreeBSD kernel with a GNU userland and glibc as the system C library.
18:10 @pvdabeel> bbiab
18:10 +dostrow> all of those only have 1 option on OS X
18:10 +dostrow> on darwin it's a different story
18:10 @klieber> dostrow: when gentoo first started, the same could have been said about x86, though.
18:10 @g2boojum> no chance that thee could be ppc and ppc64 versions?
18:11 +dostrow> g2boojum, not in the short run, in the long run, one apple abandons the G4 then yes
18:11 +dostrow> s/one/once
18:12 +dostrow> even with Tiger they aren't planning a pure 64-bit release
18:12 +dostrow> that is probably going to be 1 or 2 years off yet
18:12 +dostrow> but I see the point in looking forward
18:13 @Method|Work> glep 22 was obviously created to scale in the long term
18:13 @klieber> dostrow: if we have an agreed-upon standard in glep22, what is the objection to adhering to it?  that's the part I don't understand.
18:13 +dostrow> my only arguement is that it isn't all encompasing, if all the keywords were changing I'd have less of an issue
18:14 +dostrow> if we make a standard lets make it standard accross the board
18:14 @Method|Work> you are asking to make macos a special case, we are asking why
18:14 @Method|Work> whats the answer?
18:14 +dostrow> no I'm asking that macos be treated like x86 & ppc, which aren't changing
18:15 +dostrow> and just like ppc and ppc64
18:15 @Method|Work> you are asking an OS to be treated like an arch
18:15 @klieber> I thought they were going to change, but only over time.
18:15 +dostrow> you could have macos and macos64
18:15 @Method|Work> eg., a special case
18:15 + cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem-gentoo.staff.freenode] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:15 ~ g2boojum set +v genone on #gentoo-meetings
18:15 +dostrow> I think of macos as very arch like
18:15 @Method|Work> good for you
18:15 @Method|Work> but it's not
18:16 +dostrow> no it isnt
18:16 +dostrow> that is true
18:16 + spock [~spock@spock.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:16 +dostrow> one thing first, are the other keywords changing, yes or no?
18:16 +genone> to what?
18:16 @klieber> dostrow: if we were able to go back to the beginning of keywords and redesign it back then, we most certainly would.  but since we have an entrenched userbase, we need to make some concessions to legacy weaknesses in our design.  that doesn't really mean that we should make the same exceptions for new(er) projects.
18:17 + rajiv|work [~rajiv@rajiv.registered] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:17 @klieber> dostrow: i.e. if we agree that it was nearsighted back then, why continue to make the same mistake now?
18:17 + geoman [~spbecker@69-162-152-41.chvlva.adelphia.net] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:17 +dostrow> be back in 2 minutes, something up at work
18:17 + blackace [~blackace@blackace.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:18 + cshields [~cshields@cshields.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:18 + foser [d0h@foser.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:18 + ferringb [~ferringb@ferringb.registered] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:18 +genone> glep22 implies defaults for the non-arch parts of the keywords, so why should the existing keywords change?
18:18 + fvdpol [~frank@coil.demon.nl] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:19 @klieber> not changed, per se, but augmented.
18:19 + pclouds_ [~pclouds@203.162.78.252] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:21 @carpaski> Who is pclouds and why isn't he +o in #gentoo-dev?
18:21 @klieber> checking
18:22 @klieber> ok, well...no response.
18:22 ! pclouds_ was kicked from #gentoo-meetings by klieber (klieber)
18:22 + pclouds_ [~pclouds@203.162.78.252] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:23 @carpaski> Must have just been a glancing shot.
18:23 @klieber> he's a new dev
18:23 @klieber> my mistake.
18:24 + Ramereth [~lance@Ramereth.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:24 @carpaski> Wasn't there something else we were going to discuss besides glep22? Or am I imagining things in my email again?
18:25 @klieber> carpaski: you're imagining things in your email again
18:25 @carpaski> *sigh*
18:25 +dostrow> sorry back
18:25 @carpaski> 2. Developer open-floor discussion
18:25 @carpaski> heh
18:25 * carpaski goes back into a corner and lists,
18:25 @carpaski> listens*
18:26 @Method|Work> there was something else
18:26 @Method|Work> maybe not
18:26 @carpaski> [01:16pm]<klieber> dostrow: if we were able to go back to the beginning of keywords and redesign it back then, we most certainly would.  but since we have an entrenched userbase, we need to make some concessions to legacy weaknesses in our design.  that doesn't really mean that we should make the same exceptions for new(er) projects.
18:26 @carpaski> [01:17pm]<klieber> dostrow: i.e. if we agree that it was nearsighted back then, why continue to make the same mistake now?
18:26 @carpaski> [01:18pm]<genone> glep22 implies defaults for the non-arch parts of the keywords, so why should the existing keywords change?
18:26 @carpaski> (For the late comers)
18:27 + solar [solar@multimode.oc12.net] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:27 +dostrow> grrrrr, now my boss is calling me
18:27 +dostrow> another second please, sorry
18:28 + mut3x [~mutex@adsl-67-124-145-217.dsl.pltn13.pacbell.net] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:28 @klieber> while dostrow is gone, can anyone explain why this is a point of contention?
18:28 @klieber> I have a feeling I missed a really long, drawn out thread on -dev
18:29 @Method|Work> sounds like laziness and the desire to be special to me
18:29 @klieber> well, I imagine there's probably a reason.  I just don't know what it is.
18:30 * Method|Work notes that pvdabeel never needs a legitimate reason ;)
18:30 @klieber> now now, no need to fuel the fire. :P
18:31 +genone> the macos keyword itself was added before glep 22 was written IIRC, when portage on macos was announced by drobbins a long time ago, and I think they're just reluctant to change it
18:31 @Method|Work> ;)
18:31 @klieber> genone: would changing it cause any serious technical problems?
18:31 @Method|Work> g2boojum pulled the obsd keyword and made glep22
18:32 @Method|Work> so that keyword existed before as well
18:32 @klieber> genone: iow, other than having to do a mass search and replace, what issues prevent changing the keyword?  (or make it difficult)
18:32 +genone> klieber: don't think so, but that's only a 95% yes
18:33 @klieber> genone: fair enough.
18:33 - cybersystem [cyber@cybersystem-gentoo.staff.freenode] left #gentoo-meetings ()
18:33 @klieber> carpaski: can you think of any problems?
18:34 @carpaski> In changing? Not if the profile changes to match the keywords.
18:34 + tseng [~tseng@tseng.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:34 ~ ChanServ set +o tseng on #gentoo-meetings
18:34 @klieber> ok, then I'm at a loss to understand why this is such a big deal.
18:35 @carpaski> Custom profile and overlays will probably be a large annoyance.
18:35 @Method|Work> they feel it's unnecessary and clearly convinced themselves that it's superfluous
18:36 @klieber> ok, well lets let dostrow come back and make the case for it.  it could be we're overlooking something.
18:36 + roger55 [~roger@roger55.developer.gentoo] joined #gentoo-meetings
18:37 @klieber> in the mean time, anything else that needs to get discussed?
18:37 @Method|Work> more doughnuts in the break room
18:38 @Method|Work> and i want that fragrance toilet paper in the bathrooms
18:38 @klieber> Method|Work: as long as it's two-ply, that's all I care about
18:38 @Method|Work> ofcourse
18:40 @klieber> ok -- while we're waiting, rajiv has a topic
18:40 ~ klieber set +v rajiv|work on #gentoo-meetings
18:41 +dostrow> back again
18:41 +rajiv|work> first off, congrats on gentoo for macos.
18:41 * dostrow reads what he missed
18:41 @klieber> rajiv|work: one sec -- let's finish up w/ dostrow and the keyword issue
18:41 +rajiv|work> ok
18:42 @klieber> dostrow: at this point, we're trying to understand why there is a resistance to changing it to comply with the agreed-upon standard.
18:45 @klieber> dostrow: still with us?
18:46 +dostrow> yup writing something long
18:46 @klieber> ok
18:46 * klieber braces for impact
18:46 * carpaski recommends breaking it up to give us something to do and prevent it from getting cut off.
18:47 +dostrow> most of it comes down to 2 things, the first (which some would be quick to call lazyness, I prefer noting it as a lack of time to deal with it) is that the keyword has been around for over a year now, changing it requires change how we have been woring up to this point, the 2nd (which some would be quick to call the need to be special) is that there really is no fundamental differece between ppc and ppc64 for linux and macos and macos6
18:47 +dostrow> 4 for os x, like I said if this was one sweeping movement, albeit as slow as it needs to be for the legacy keywords, e.g. adding the new keyword layout the upcoming 2004.2 or even 2004.3 profiles and adding the new keywords in tandem to the old ones while the migration happens I'd be more amicable to it, I really have no issue with the standard, I just take issue with spotty application of standards
18:48 +dostrow> which brings me to another point which can wait till this is over but that is space for all the "new" projects on the mirrors
18:48 @Method|Work> so when "x86" is changed to linux-gnu-x86 or whatever what will macosx look like?
18:49 +dostrow> x86 would read x86-linux-gnu-glibc accoriding to glep 22, macos would read ppc-mach-darwin-libc or something similar
18:49 @Method|Work> fantastic
18:49 @Method|Work> why not do that now?
18:49 @Method|Work> rather than later when it's harder?
18:50 +dostrow> all I'm sugesting is that if we are staring to make the change on one, start to make the change on all of them
18:50 +dostrow> even if it will take longer on the legacy keywords
18:51 +dostrow> get the ball rolling
18:51 @Method|Work> right, and that'll happen eventually
18:51 +dostrow> a standard is a standard
18:51 @Method|Work> and it would be incredibly pointless to continue the legacy way for newish projects
18:51 @Method|Work> it really sounds like you are just feeling discriminated against
18:52 @klieber> dostrow: I don't think anyone is disagreeing that they all need to be changed.
18:52 +dostrow> then here is my proposal, lets get releng to set a reasonable date that ALL of the keywords should be ready by, macos will conform along with everyone else
18:53 +dostrow> I see no problem with that
18:53 @Method|Work> how about you don't worry about all the keywords and let that work out in due time
18:53 +dostrow> we'll be done WAY earlier than anyone else
18:54 +genone> so it's just a "you don't do it so I won't do it" ?
18:54 +dostrow> Method|work: my concern is that it will never happen, I've seen to much of that go by both here and in other projects
18:54 +dostrow> genone: not what I am saying at all, I feel very strongly about standards being, well, standard
18:54 @Method|Work> tbh you just destroyed your point, i'm sorry if the macos folks don't want to do it the standard way and want to worry about everyone following the standard, tough luck IMO
18:55 @Method|Work> i'm grepping through the tree and have only seen about 3 ebuilds with macos keywords
18:55 +dostrow> few have them yet yes
18:55 @Method|Work> then it won't be hard to change
18:55 +dostrow> I'm not implying that it would be that difficult to do
18:55 +genone> dostrow: and the standard is clear: x86 means x86-linux-gnu-glibc
18:55 @klieber> dostrow: nobody is suggesting that we not change x86 and other arches to support the new scheme.  those are much more entrenched, however, and are going to require more time.
18:55 +dostrow> not accorfing to glep 22 it doesn't
18:56 @klieber> in the mean time, why can't we change macosx on a more immediate basis *before* it gets more entrenched?
18:56 @Method|Work> genone: that may have been in follow up discussion but i remember it too
18:56 +dostrow> klieber: so get releng to set a date a year from now to have it done by
18:56 @klieber> dostrow: that doesn't answer my question
18:56 +genone> "For backwards compatibility, the Gentoo default is a Linux kernel with a GNU userland and glibc C library. Thus, the current crop of ARCH-based keywords (x86, ppc, etcetera) require no change whatsoever."
18:57 @klieber> dostrow: you're assuming/suggesting that all arches have to be done at the same time, big-bang style.  that's not the purpose of glep 22.  it clearly states that it is intended to be gradual.
18:57 @Method|Work> genone: ah, good
18:57 +dostrow> I'll start working on getting macos to conform now, all I'm suggesting is others do the same
18:57 @klieber> dostrow: agreed -- we all need to conform to the new standard.
18:57 @Method|Work> dostrow: that wasn't your suggestion at the beginning of this
18:58 +dostrow> Method|work: no indeed it wasn't and some good points were brought up, and I have slightly changed my opinion, I just ask for some leeway in the time I have to change macos
18:58 @Method|Work> thats fine, so there is no problem at all then
18:59 @klieber> dostrow: how much leeway do you think you'll need?
18:59 +dostrow> I just don't want to look at this a year from now and see no other movement
18:59 +dostrow> honestly 2 or so months, both pvdabeel and I are very busy atm
18:59 +dostrow> it's going to halt our efforts in their tracks until we can get some stuff changes
19:00 +dostrow> *changed
19:00 @klieber> can we safely say by the end of september?
19:00 @Method|Work> i thought you had 20 people on this macosx team?
19:00 +dostrow> most of them new devs in training
19:00 @klieber> ppc team.
19:00 @Method|Work> that isn't what the email said
19:00 +dostrow> it is macos
19:00 +dostrow> just most of them new
19:01 @klieber> dostrow: if the change is essentially a massive search and replace, can you help me understand what the bottleneck is?
19:02 +dostrow> that is pretty much true, also have to change the profiles etc. by the end of sept. it will be done
19:02 +dostrow> is that Ok with everybody?
19:02 @klieber> works for me.
19:03 +dostrow> klieber: whihc brings me to point #2, space on the mirrors
19:03 +dostrow> *which
19:03 @klieber> ok
19:03 @klieber> what about it?
19:04 +dostrow> with the new keyword layout I assume that the mirror structure is going to accomidate it in some way that will be easy to understand for the users
19:04 +dostrow> for livecd's and stages and installers and such
19:04 @klieber> we typically work from least specific --> most specific.
19:04 +dostrow> I ask you since you are infra :)
19:05 @klieber> least specific being ARCH and working down from there
19:05 @klieber> so macosx will likely fall under the ppc umbrella
19:05 +dostrow> and you will have several darwins under several arches and several openbsds the same?
19:06 @klieber> I would expect to, yes.
19:06 @klieber> if someone has a better organizational structure, I'm open to discussing it.  that's just how we've done things up until now.
19:06 @Method|Work> it's a broken concept, OS is no more or less specific than arch
19:06 @Method|Work> we'll need to discuss it later
19:07 * klieber takes away Method's two-by-four and replaces it with a carrot.
19:07 +dostrow> as it is we need space on the mirrors now
19:07 @Method|Work> lol
19:07 +dostrow> LOL
19:07 @klieber> dostrow: who told you you couldn't have space on the mirrors?
19:07 @Method|Work> dostrow: join the crusade against grp
19:07 +dostrow> noone, just don't know where to put it
19:07 @Method|Work> ha
19:07 +dostrow> and if we could kill 2 birds with one stone I thought we should
19:07 @klieber> the current guideline is 2.5GB per arch.
19:08 +dostrow> yeah but now we have arch, kernel, etc.
19:08 @klieber> the only hard and fast rule is that we plan our space needs ahead of time, rather than reacting at the last minute.
19:08 @klieber> because I need to communicate those needs to our mirrors to give *them* enough time to plan accordingly
19:08 +dostrow> which is fine, so lets plan
19:08 @klieber> ok -- can we take that offline?
19:09 @klieber> that's mostly an infra thing
19:09 +dostrow> we need VERY little space now, but it will grow
19:09 +dostrow> kk
19:09 @klieber> just /msg me later after the meeting and I'll work it out with you
19:09 +dostrow> k
19:09 @Method|Work> rajiv|work's turn?
19:09 @klieber> yep
19:09 +dostrow> I'd also like to talk about the org structure, but I suppose that would take a glep
19:10 @klieber> we're running a bit late, so I'll open up the floor in a minute
19:10 +dostrow> of the mirrors I mean
19:10 +dostrow> kk
19:10 +rajiv|work> my question is related ... if gentoo macos is supported/official, then downloads shoudl be on a gentoo.org server, not metadistribution.org
19:10 @klieber> dostrow: no glep needed.  it's an infra thing.  we'll talk about that later.
19:10 @Method|Work> dostrow: good luck with that
19:10 @klieber> rajiv|work: yes, I agree.  I already emailed the management team mentioning that fact.
19:10 @Method|Work> rajiv|work: agreed
19:11 +rajiv|work> cool thanks. maybe we can get the dmg file up now since metadistribution.org is /.'d ?
19:11 @klieber> we can after dostrow and I work out a place to put it, sure.
19:11 +rajiv|work> great thanks.
19:11 ~ klieber set -m on #gentoo-meetings
19:11 @klieber> ok, anything else from the group?
19:12 <- notice[carpaski|#gentoo-meetings] Anybody sleeping? :)
19:12  Ramereth> i want free cookies at the next meeting :)
19:12 @Method|Work> i want free booze
19:12  Kugelfang> i want popcorn *G
19:12 +dostrow> I'm down for pie, pie is good, especially free pie
19:12  ChrisWhite> eh?
19:12  Pylon> I have some concerns with the MacOS movement.
19:12 +dostrow> Pylon: shoot
19:13  Pylon> Gentoo/PPC is now lacking of developers.
19:13 * lisa is sleeping (well, programming actually)
19:13  Pylon> There are only few left who will do Gentoo/PPC.  Most of them do both.
19:13  Pylon> And I can't see that we have enough manpower for it.
19:13 +dostrow> yes most of us do  both
19:13  Pylon> Gentoo/PPC was far behind other arches before the Gentoo/MacOS release.
19:14  ChrisWhite> I'm wondering if some people would start contributing if we utilized the dev boxes more
19:14 @Method|Work> i have concerns about the reason for even having gentoo/macos but if developers want to work on it *shrug*
19:14 +dostrow> Pylon: my hope is to dual task a few of the macos devs that I'm bringing in
19:14 +dostrow> but that only marginally covers your concerns
19:14 +dostrow> and I agree that we are VERY understaffed in ppc
19:15  Pylon> dostrow: These are future plans.  We need a decision for now and the 2004.3 release.
19:15 @Method|Work> Pylon: isn't that up to the ppc guys? if they spread themselves too thin it *is* their perogative
19:15 * ferringb wonders what pylon is exactly asking for
19:16 +dostrow> Pylon: agreed; so what is it you are proposing, exactly?
19:16  Pylon> Currently we have no toolchain that can handle a safe installation of all stable ebuilds.  Though, the base- and grp-system will build fine, but there are ebuilds which are stable from a long time ago, which won't build now.
19:16  ChrisWhite> I have another topic I just thought of bringing up when everyone's done
19:17 - jforman [jforman@jforman.developer.gentoo] left #gentoo-meetings ()
19:17  Pylon> Isn't that the meeting when devs could tell their sorrows to the managers?
19:17 @Method|Work> this shouldn't even be called Gentoo/macos really, since it isn't gentoo, it's just portage for macos
19:17 @Method|Work> and those *aren't* the same thing
19:18  geoman> Method|Work, I'm not sure that's the case actually
19:18 @Method|Work> yea, "Gentoo" is a metadistribution, this project is portage on macos
19:18  geoman> Method|Work, gentoo is a meta-distribution, and as such, gentoo really *is* portage
19:18  Pylon> If not, oversee what I've written above and see Gentoo/PPC die...
19:18  geoman> heh
19:18 @Method|Work> that isn't true
19:18 @Method|Work> a "Gentoo system" is a system built with portage
19:18 @klieber> Pylon: who's the lead for ppc now? is it lu_zero?
19:18 @Method|Work> this isn't built with portage
19:18 +dostrow> klieber: lu_zero and pvdabeel
19:19  Pylon> klieber: Strategical it's pvdabeel and operational it's lu_zero.
19:19 +dostrow> lu_zero is ops
19:19  Pylon> lu_zero is busy with exams and pvdabeel is busy with MacOS
19:19 @klieber> Pylon: ok -- have you asked them what their plans are to improve recruiting efforts?
19:19  Pylon> klieber: pvdabeel thinks the same like dostrow, that we can get new devs by back-recruiting from MacOS.
19:20 +dostrow> Pylon: at least that is my hope
19:20  fvdpol> One question: since the current herds are maintaining ebuilds for the *-linux-gnu-glibc architecture; would this imply that for a *-macos etc. architecture there would arrise new herds???
19:20 +dostrow> Pylon: might turn out not to be a reality unfortunatly
19:20  Pylon> klieber: lu_zero has no clue about it, as he usually is the toolchain-maintainer for ppc, but do the operational lead, as nobody else is capable of this role.
19:20 @klieber> wow -- that makes it sound like ppc is a second-tier arch, taking backstage to macosx
19:21 @klieber> dostrow: is that the case?
19:21 @Method|Work> klieber: that happens when managers get distracted easily :\
19:21 @klieber> we're recruiting for macosx first and giving ppc the leftovers?
19:21 +dostrow> klieber: I hope not, there is just alot of new excitement over the port . . . . . .
19:21  Pylon> klieber: It is.  Read the last GWN.  "Wow, there are more macos-devs than ppc-devs".  That really hurt me.
19:21 * genone hates hypes
19:22 +rajiv|work> i think we are going to see more and more ppl using gentoo/macos and not linux on their ppc. just by the nature of the userbase of people buying apple hardware
19:22 +dostrow> and some of them aren't familiar with "linux" at all, or have little interest in it outside of the unixy backbone of OS X
19:22 @Method|Work> and they are going to be checking stuff into cvs that will affect linux
19:22 @Method|Work> surely you see the issue here
19:22 @klieber> that doesn't help the fact that we still have a core arch that is lacking in manpower right now
19:23 +dostrow> I certainly am going to try my best to dual task
19:23  geoman> well if you listen to the people who would pay the extra $$$$ for the "mac experience" anyway, I think they would be more likely to want to run/dev gentoo-macosx instead of gentoo-ppx
19:23 +dostrow> I certainly can
19:23  Pylon> I hope, I'm allowed to still do Gentoo/PPC, even when there are only a few users left.  I don't want to see it die.
19:23 +dostrow> ^Method|work
19:23 @klieber> dostrow: I think what pylon is saying is that he doesn't feel like anyone cares about gentoo-ppc now that macosx is around.  or at least doesn't care as much
19:23 +dostrow> Pylon: I don't plan on letting it get that far, it after all is why I'm here
19:24 @klieber> dostrow: have you guys considered doing some dedicated recruiting efforts for gentoo-ppc?
19:24 @klieber> rather than trying to backfill from macosx?
19:24 +dostrow> klieber: I'll see what I can pull together, never done the recruting thing but I'll give it my best shot
19:24 @Method|Work> why should the same dev pool be used for both anyway? they are significantly different projects, just because they happen to be on the same arch
19:24 @Method|Work> it makes no sense to clump them together
19:24  Pylon> klieber: I'm looking out for users who are good enough become dev.  But the few I asked are not interested.
19:25 @klieber> dostrow: devrel can help you there
19:25 @Method|Work> dostrow: ^^ for a price ;)
19:25  geoman> Method|Work, I agree...it would be like trying to get x86 devs to also do cygwin
19:25 @Method|Work> geoman: exactly, or bsd
19:25 +dostrow> Method|work: no it doesn't but those with interest in portage on os x tend to have an equal interest in linux ppc
19:25 @klieber> Pylon: have you sent an email to the ppc list?  I recruited a number of good folks to the security team by emailing gentoo-security.
19:25 @Method|Work> dostrow: you just said the exact opposite of that
19:26 @Method|Work> <dostrow> and some of them aren't familiar with "linux" at all, or have little interest in it outside of the unixy backbone of OS X
19:26  Pylon> klieber: No, I didn't yet.  And it seems that I should do it as nobody else will do it...
19:26 @Method|Work> <dostrow> Method|work: no it doesn't but those with interest in portage on os x tend to have an equal interest in linux ppc
19:26 @Method|Work> which is it?
19:26 +dostrow> I said that some of them don't and some of them do, it's abotut a 50-50 split atm
19:26 +dostrow> just because you are interested in one doesn't negate the other
19:27 @klieber> Pylon: I'm just tossing out ideas. :/
19:27 +dostrow> Pylon: coordinate with me, I certainly don't want to see the ppc port die, I'll do whatever I can to help you there, didn't know you had concerns
19:28 +rajiv|work> ppc has always had a lack of devs
19:28  Pylon> Okay then.  Thanks for the discussion about my concerns here.  I got a lot of statements which are important for the Gentoo/PPC project and I got several ideas on how I can improve it.
19:28 +dostrow> I'll get dmwaters and the rest of recruiters involved too
19:29  ferringb> ChrisWhite: your turn :)
19:29  kloeri> Pylon, dostrow: I can advertise for ppc devs in #-bugs but I'll need your help if anybody interested shows up..
19:29 +dostrow> no problem
19:29  kloeri> Pylon, dostrow: we could probably get some people to show up next bugday if we post to the relevat mailinglists and forums
19:29  Pylon> kloeri: Maybe I can find some good people when I decrease the number of open ppc-bugs.
19:29  ChrisWhite> ferringb: lemme wait for the cue from moderators :P
19:30 @klieber> ChrisWhite: it's an open floor
19:30  ChrisWhite> ok then
19:31  ChrisWhite> I think we need to work a whole lot more on promoting the developer boxes ( http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/infrastructure/dev-machines.xml )
19:31  ChrisWhite> I've heard some people in -dev going "what?  We have test machines?"
19:32 @Method|Work> have they even been turned over to releng from infra?
19:32  Pylon> ChrisWhite: I tried to use the dual-g5 a few days ago, but it was overloaded with the 2004.2-release...
19:32 @Method|Work> because i was talking to zhen about using one of them as the selinux demo machine (the crappy sparc that owuld be useless to any sparc dev)
19:32  ChrisWhite> There are so many arch bugs out there that maintainers simply can't handle because they aren't on arch[x]
19:33  ChrisWhite> Or they can simply use it to make sure it compiles on all the archs and prevent future issues
19:33  ChrisWhite> right now we've got sparc/amd64/arm/ppc/ppc64
19:34  ChrisWhite> as Pylon stated, the dual g5 is down for 2004.2 release
19:34 +dostrow> ChrisWhite: I should have a few boxes to donate to that, low upstream bandwidth though
19:34 +dostrow> in the coming weeks
19:34 +dostrow> would have to reconfigure one or 2
19:34  geoman> ChrisWhite, don't forget the big mips box ;)
19:34  ChrisWhite> I think we need more boxes listed there, more volunteers for boxes, etc.
19:34  Pylon> I'm not sure how it is on other arches, but on ppc we had very often problems with ebuilds that compile on G3, but not on G4.  So you can't tell for sure if one ebuild compiled on one box, this could be masked stable.
19:34  cshields> ChrisWhite, would a dual G5 533 help?
19:34 @klieber> Method|Work: infra has nothing to do with them.
19:34  cshields> ChrisWhite, I may have access to one soon
19:34  ChrisWhite> I think anything would help
19:34  Pylon> I used the eMac quite often, but it seems it disappered with drobbins...
19:35 @klieber> Pylon: we no longer have access to that box, correct.
19:35 +dostrow> Pylon: that right there is ppc's biggest problem, something that we should bring up in our internal meeting
19:35  ChrisWhite> We need a more comprehensive list of these boxes
19:35 @klieber> ChrisWhite: we have a comprehensive list.
19:35 @klieber> spanky made one
19:35 +genone> cshields: G5 533 ??
19:35 +dostrow> cshields: you mean a dual G4?
19:35  Pylon> cshields: A G5 on 533MHz?  That has never been built.
19:35  ChrisWhite> klieber: is it on official docs?
19:35 @klieber> ChrisWhite: you just posted the link, so yes.
19:36  cshields> genone, dostrow, ChrisWhite: yes, my bad..  G4  (sorry, only half paying attention and talking on the phone)
19:36  Pylon> klieber: The eMac, has this been financed by drobbins personally or by the store?
19:36 +dostrow> I shou;g be able to put both my G5 and my G4 up for use . . . . . . . .
19:36  ChrisWhite> klieber: er.. bad wording
19:36 +rajiv|work> i have a dual 225 604e sitting in pieces that can be made into a dev machine
19:36 @klieber> Pylon: I'm not sure, tbh.
19:36 +dostrow> and an AMD Duron as well
19:37  ChrisWhite> klieber: I should say we simply need more machines that we can add to that list
19:37  Pylon> cshields: Yes, a development-G4 would help a lot!
19:37 +dostrow> oh and a stupid u10
19:37  ChrisWhite> klieber: a -core mail would probably be good, I'll send one out probably
19:37  Pylon> rajiv|work: This machine sits in pieces as long as I know you ;)
19:37 @Method|Work> didn't drobbins buy the emac himself? i'm pretty sure that was the case
19:37 +dostrow> Pylon ChrisWhite: read above for my contributions
19:38  Pylon> dostrow: I have a u10 myself, thanks.
19:38  Pylon> But a G4 would be really fine.
19:38  Pylon> At least one ;)
19:38 +dostrow> Pylon, not a problem, I have a 1.25 not is use atm
19:38  ChrisWhite> dostrow: ok, I'll send an email out to -core with those listed, I'm hopping that people will see it and we'll get more boxes volunteered
19:39 @klieber> ChrisWhite: boxes is half the problem -- decent bandwidth is another.
19:39 +dostrow> it will take me until after LWE to get them set up and externally facing though
19:39 @klieber> we can provide hosting for *some* of those boxes as long as they're going to provide enough value to the project.
19:39 @klieber> i.e. we're not going to host a PII 400 box.
19:39 +dostrow> I'm also upgrading my badwidth to 2 dsl lines, but it will still be kinda wimpy
19:40  fvdpol> klieber: what is considered as being decend bandwith?
19:40 +rajiv|work> Pylon: yup
19:40  Pylon> Yes.  A box for compiling an experimental-LiveCD is okay.  But we still need the possibility to download that CD with a good speed...
19:40  ChrisWhite> klieber: even so.. there may be people out there with "decent bandwith" and test boxes that don't even realize they can contribute
19:40 @klieber> ChrisWhite: I'm just saying that we can also provide bandwidth if needed
19:41 +dostrow> klieber: what are we talking about here, I will have 12 mb down 1.5 up, will that do?
19:41 @klieber> fvdpol: depends on the purpose of the box, I guess.  I wouldn't want to do a lot of emerging on something with a 512Kbps line, though.
19:41 @klieber> dostrow: I would think that is fine, myself.
19:41 +dostrow> that'll be a few months down the road though
19:41  ChrisWhite> klieber: well, step 1 would most definately be seeing what boxes there are out there.. once we've done that, then we can work with the bandwith issue
19:42  ferringb> klieber: related to the talk about hardware, potential for getting a box for QA'ing of the tree?  nightly repoman runs, stuff of that sort?
19:43 +dostrow> ferringb: something with some fresh auto notify tools would be sweet
19:43 @klieber> ferringb: we have an itanium box that isn't being used afaik.  that might be a good candidate.
19:44 @klieber> ferringb: if we had a box, would you be willing to write the QA stuff to run on it?
19:44 @Method|Work> itanium for running repoman, fabulous use of resources :D
19:44  ferringb> klieber: I already have written a fair amount.
19:44 @klieber> Method|Work: nobody else is using it. :P
19:44 @Method|Work> :)
19:44 + puggy [~puggy@cpc2-rdng1-4-0-cust80.winn.cable.ntl.com] joined #gentoo-meetings
19:44 @Method|Work> is that from HP?
19:44  ferringb> src_uri checker, various scans of the tree (aliz's script is much better though), repoman hacks, etc.
19:44  fvdpol> Method|Work: perhaps the itanium could be used to automagically test-compile ebuilds comitted to portage :-)
19:45  kloeri> klieber: is that the devrel ia64 box? if it's resurrected I'd like access to help agriffis with the ia64 arch..
19:45 @Method|Work> fvdpol: for itanium? that isn't very useful
19:45 @klieber> kloeri: that's it.
19:45 @klieber> kloeri: zhen owns it atm.  talk to him about getting it resurrected.
19:45 @klieber> Method|Work: yes, the HP box.
19:46  kloeri> klieber: ok, thanks
19:46 @Method|Work> is there some sort of deal with HP to support such and such in exchange for it or did they donate it permanently?
19:47 @klieber> Method|Work: it's on "long term loan" from them to help us do our ia64 port.
19:48 @Method|Work> interesting
19:51  Pylon> I hope that the amd64-installation on LinuxTag can cause some more attention on Gentoo by HP.
19:52 = genone [~genone@genone.developer.gentoo] quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
19:53 @klieber> Pylon: I'm still mad at you for not getting them to donate a box to us. :)
19:53  kloeri> Pylon: hp is quite nice - they are also lending alpha boxes to 1 or 2 gentoo devs as well as providing access and bandwidth to a nice alphaserver
19:54 @pvdabeel> hey
19:54 @pvdabeel> back
19:54  Pylon> klieber: I bothered them a lot and I thought about stealing during the teardown-phase ;)  But the HP-staff at LinuxTag are not able to decide the donation.
19:54 @pvdabeel> so did the keyword issue get worked out?
19:55  Pylon> kloeri: I have access to a ProLiant with a Dual-PIII.  This machine is incredible fast for a PIII!
19:56 @pvdabeel> Pylon: same one here :)
19:56  kloeri> Pylon: haha, made for catalyst builds :)
19:57  Pylon> kloeri: Hmm.  I don't have need for x86-LiveCDs...  I need a fast machine for ppc-LiveCDs.
19:57  Pylon> But that is a good idea.  Experimental LiveDVDs on that machine.
19:58 @klieber> pvdabeel: yes -- dostrow agreed that it would be changed by the end of september.
20:00 @pvdabeel> perfect,
20:00 @pvdabeel> klieber: no more nightmares then?
20:02 @klieber> I never had any nightmares, so it's all good on my end.
20:03  ChrisWhite> klieber's got his blankie, he doesn't get nightmares
20:03  ChrisWhite> :p
20:05 @pvdabeel> ;-p
20:08 * ChrisWhite wonders how he's supposed to sudo root on zhen's amd64 box if he has no password..
--- Log closed Tue Jul 20 15:40:10 2004
