Note: My Xen VPS server clock ist wrong. The meeting started at 20:04

20:24  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the Oct 2012 Trustees meeting
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call
20:24 <@_robbat2|irssi> present
20:24 <@dabbott> here
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> My logger is here
20:24 <@rich0> here
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> we have a quorum.  quantumsummers|c can catch up
20:25 <@_robbat2|irssi> i'd appreciate if shor, limited mobile battery
20:25 <@_robbat2|irssi> *short
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 3 Old Business Financial stuff - lets skip it, it needs quantumsummers|c 
20:26 <@rich0> Ok, but maybe can we cover that in email?
20:26 <@rich0> Not sure where that all stands.
20:26 <@dabbott> need to email new members from last month
20:26 <@rich0> No need to try to cover now.
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we still need to email new members voted on the alias last month  ?
20:27 <@dabbott> yes
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll do it
20:27 <@dabbott> and get the key from Steve Herber
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Update members list: Bug 435248.   I've updated the ACL here
20:27 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/435248 "Members List Update"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; dabbott:trustees
20:28 <@dabbott> thanks NeddySeagoon 
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> any more to add to that bug or can it be closed ?
20:28 <@dabbott> that is should be done http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/20121011_members_list.xml
20:28 <@dabbott> just check it over for me
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ok ... I'll look at it later in the week
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Financial | Legal Status - needs quantumsummers|c  ... so skip
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0,  Foundation Activity Tracker Update ... do we need a rule about infra not all being in the same bar at the same time ?
20:30 <@rich0> :)
20:30 <@_robbat2|irssi> lol
20:30 <@dabbott> lets add the finanical reports to the tracker so they get updated in a timely manner
20:30 <@rich0> Nope, but we should probably confirm whether the Aug/Sep items are actually done, and documented.
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, anything to add on the Activity Tracker ?
20:30 <@_robbat2|irssi> we're already not in the same hotel, or sharing any flights
20:31 <@rich0> Financial reports - what kind of frequency?
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, can you review that please ?
20:31 <@dabbott> quarterly
20:31 <@rich0> Ok, I'll put that on there, maybe aiming for 4Q since we're in catchup mode.
20:31 <@rich0> Quick review:
20:32 <@rich0> Trustee Election - I don't think the results page was updated yet, so not quite done.
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 4 Open Trustee Bugs.  I don't think we need to discuss any of these right now
20:32 <@_robbat2|irssi> we also need to link more of the existing financial stuff
20:32 <@_robbat2|irssi> i had to dig it up for the talk i did
20:32 <@_robbat2|irssi> it's done, just not linked
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, yes we do.  Agreed
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 5 - there is no new business
20:33 <@rich0> Ditto for a bunch of stuff on the tracker.
20:33 <@dabbott> Bug 432626
20:33 < willikins> dabbott: https://bugs.gentoo.org/432626 "Please update finances page"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; darkside:trustees
20:33 <@rich0> Not linked = not done.
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 6 Membership Applications - None this month
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> 7. Advertising Requests  Request from ShopLinuxOnline to be added as an unlicensed vendor
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> Provided they sell at cost+ nominal fee, I have no issues
20:34 <@dabbott> brb
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> $1.95 for the DVD looks ok
20:35 <@dabbott> ok back
20:35 <@rich0> I'm fine with that.
20:35 <@dabbott> ok by me i can add them
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, dabbott ?
20:36 <@_robbat2|irssi> +1
20:36 <@dabbott> yes
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, please go ahead
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, I'll leave to to sent an emal to  ShopLinuxOnline when its done
20:37 <@dabbott> ok
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 18 Nov 2012 19:00 UTC
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> wfm
20:37 <@dabbott> fine here
20:37 <@_robbat2|irssi> +1
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business ...
20:37 <@rich0> Fine here.
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> I proposed a meetings calendar ... does it work ?
20:38 <@rich0> Meetings calendar?
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> do we need to move the Fathers day meeting ?
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> before last months meeting
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> 3rd Sunday in the month at 19:00 UTC
20:39 <@rich0> Works in general, fine with the odd exception.
20:39 <@rich0> Might as well move Father's day.
20:39 <@rich0> This far out your guess is as good as mine.  :)
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, +1 or -1 ?
20:39 <@_robbat2|irssi> ok
20:40 <@dabbott> 3rd Sunday in the month at 19:00 UTC +1
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> any more AoB ?
20:41 <@_robbat2|irssi> non from me, but would appreciate trustees reading the backlog i raised
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> I have one more ... has anyone heard from quantumsummers|c ?  There is the outstanding cheque email still unansdwerd
20:41 <@rich0> He replied to that email.
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, I must have missed the reply
20:42 <@rich0> He said it was straightened out.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
20:42 <@_robbat2|irssi> i don't recall the reply, but ok
20:42 <@rich0> For that matter we have the bug about the GSOC stuff.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> I thought that was all fixed ?
20:42 <@rich0> Bug is open.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll read the bugs more carefully
20:43 <@rich0> Might just be for 2012.
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> I will post the log and do the new members emails
20:43 <@dabbott> i will work on the finances page's see what I can do to organize them and fix links
20:43 <@rich0> In general we should follow up offline on finances.
20:43 <@rich0> Recordkeeping/etc.  
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, and fix ShopLinuxOnline
20:44 <@rich0> Ideally we should have some kind of private repository to reduce the bus factor.
20:44 <@rich0> And maybe get more help if needed.
20:44 <@_robbat2|irssi> yes, was raised at the miniconf
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> we should get more help ... that reduces the bus factor too
20:44 <@rich0> Ideally I'd love to see a private repo that trustees and those who need to know have full access to unredacted docs on everything.
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, I didn't see any volunteers there
20:44 <@rich0> Then a public one with redacted info for general openness.
20:45 <@rich0> And if an appeal for help is needed, let's post that on -nfp.
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, I thing robbat2|na and quantumsummers|c were working on something
20:45 <@_robbat2|irssi> ok
20:45 <@rich0> And maybe on other lists directing attention there.
20:45 <@rich0> Yup, GREALY appreciate all they're doing.  We need to get them help if we can.
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
20:45 <@rich0> Worst case we could even pay somebody to do it.
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> but not us ... we need new blood
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ....
20:47  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
