Apr 15 15:00:10 <NeddySeagoon>	rool Call
Apr 15 15:00:12 <dabbott>	that close by me
Apr 15 15:00:16 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll*
Apr 15 15:00:19 <dabbott>	that is
Apr 15 15:00:24 *	quantumsummers|c is present
Apr 15 15:00:31 <quantumsummers|c>	dabbott: I thought it might be
Apr 15 15:00:33 <dabbott>	also here
Apr 15 15:00:35 <quantumsummers|c>	nice area
Apr 15 15:00:41 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm loggig but can't post the log :(   don't ask
Apr 15 15:00:51 <dabbott>	i can
Apr 15 15:00:59 <robbat2>	hi
Apr 15 15:01:00 <dabbott>	untill i bust this box
Apr 15 15:01:06 <robbat2>	present
Apr 15 15:01:15 <quantumsummers|c>	hi robbat2
Apr 15 15:01:20 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks dabbott 
Apr 15 15:01:25 <quantumsummers|c>	where's mah steak
Apr 15 15:01:31 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, ?
Apr 15 15:01:47 <rich0>	here
Apr 15 15:01:53 <rich0>	Sorry, alt-tabbed :)
Apr 15 15:01:56 <NeddySeagoon>	OK, we have a quorum - no need to wait
Apr 15 15:02:16 <NeddySeagoon>	Funding Request for Fosscomm 2012
Apr 15 15:02:48 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't see us funding much more than decorations for a stand and DVDs
Apr 15 15:03:17 <NeddySeagoon>	that would include T-Shirts for those manning the stand
Apr 15 15:03:24 <rich0>	Tend to agree.  Anything beyond that would have to be special circumstances
Apr 15 15:03:35 <quantumsummers|c>	do we have a budget amount in mind?
Apr 15 15:03:48 <quantumsummers|c>	something like $500 or similar
Apr 15 15:03:53 <dabbott>	they just want DVD's, stickers and flyers
Apr 15 15:04:19 <quantumsummers|c>	ah $350
Apr 15 15:04:19 <dabbott>	Fosscomm 2012 - 200 dvds - 300 stickers - 300 flyers
Apr 15 15:04:29 <robbat2>	the amounts in the their table add to 220EUR, and they asked for 270EUR budget
Apr 15 15:04:31 <quantumsummers|c>	comment 2 has a figure
Apr 15 15:04:36 <quantumsummers|c>	in USD
Apr 15 15:04:59 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, that works -  its easiest if the stuff is procured locally.  Then we avoid customs and international shipping hassels
Apr 15 15:05:18 <quantumsummers|c>	they should be able to handle that, I would think
Apr 15 15:05:22 <quantumsummers|c>	is tampakrap around?
Apr 15 15:05:27 <dabbott>	thats the plan comment 3
Apr 15 15:05:27 <tampakrap>	yep
Apr 15 15:05:35 <quantumsummers|c>	seems reasonable
Apr 15 15:05:44 <tampakrap>	give me a min to read backlog
Apr 15 15:05:52 <quantumsummers|c>	I think we should make one of them write a PR article or two for us :)
Apr 15 15:06:02 <dabbott>	++
Apr 15 15:06:04 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, seems fair
Apr 15 15:06:10 <quantumsummers|c>	just so we get some exposure, etc
Apr 15 15:06:17 <dabbott>	and pictures
Apr 15 15:06:29 <quantumsummers|c>	two (a before and an after)
Apr 15 15:06:34 <quantumsummers|c>	with images
Apr 15 15:06:45 <quantumsummers|c>	for to promote the glory of ze gentoo
Apr 15 15:06:47 <quantumsummers|c>	:D
Apr 15 15:06:56 <tampakrap>	yes don't worry about that
Apr 15 15:07:01 <quantumsummers|c>	any questions for Theo et. at.?
Apr 15 15:07:09 <quantumsummers|c>	tampakrap: I always worry
Apr 15 15:07:16 <quantumsummers|c>	about everything these days
Apr 15 15:07:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need to approve the 270 euro budge here and now ?
Apr 15 15:07:30 <tampakrap>	sorry, parents on the phone...
Apr 15 15:07:38 <robbat2>	motion: approve budget of 270EUR (~$350USD) for Fosscom?
Apr 15 15:07:40 <tampakrap>	so, we asked for 270 euros right?
Apr 15 15:07:46 <NeddySeagoon>	seconded
Apr 15 15:07:47 <dabbott>	seconded
Apr 15 15:07:52 <quantumsummers|c>	Vote!
Apr 15 15:07:52 <rich0>	aye
Apr 15 15:07:54 <quantumsummers|c>	aye
Apr 15 15:07:55 <robbat2>	aye
Apr 15 15:07:56 <NeddySeagoon>	vote please
Apr 15 15:07:56 <dabbott>	yes
Apr 15 15:08:01 <NeddySeagoon>	yes
Apr 15 15:08:05 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Apr 15 15:08:10 <tampakrap>	thank you :)
Apr 15 15:08:17 <dabbott>	yw
Apr 15 15:08:27 <dabbott>	have fun :)
Apr 15 15:08:28 <tampakrap>	about PR, no worries we're going to have plenty of pics and blog posts for that (as every year)
Apr 15 15:08:32 <quantumsummers|c>	So, to summarize, we need two (2) PR news items, one for before and one for after.
Apr 15 15:08:44 <quantumsummers|c>	ok then
Apr 15 15:08:55 <dabbott>	tampakrap, I can post them
Apr 15 15:08:57 <NeddySeagoon>	tampakrap, you have 270 euros approved - if you go over that the excess needs to be approved before you spend it.  We will need receipts too
Apr 15 15:08:58 <quantumsummers|c>	have a good ole time tampakrap, sounds like a great event
Apr 15 15:09:24 <quantumsummers|c>	tampakrap: just post scans of your receipts to that bug
Apr 15 15:09:35 <quantumsummers|c>	we can use it to track the reimbursements, etc
Apr 15 15:09:38 <tampakrap>	we'll pass an article to dabbott then
Apr 15 15:09:44 <quantumsummers|c>	2!
Apr 15 15:09:47 <tampakrap>	ack about receipts
Apr 15 15:09:48 <NeddySeagoon>	that works
Apr 15 15:09:48 <quantumsummers|c>	:D
Apr 15 15:09:51 <quantumsummers|c>	ok
Apr 15 15:09:59 <tampakrap>	(one for before I meant :) )
Apr 15 15:10:06 <quantumsummers|c>	alright alright.
Apr 15 15:10:16 <NeddySeagoon>	any more for Fosscomm 2012 ?
Apr 15 15:10:19 <tampakrap>	thanks a lot, it's going to be fun (esp for me after 4 months away of GR :) )
Apr 15 15:10:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Gentoo Logo Usage Policy 
Apr 15 15:11:25 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm out of date on this and haven't had time to do my homework
Apr 15 15:11:35 <quantumsummers|c>	same here. apologies
Apr 15 15:11:45 <dabbott>	we need to come up with a diff from our current policy and what we want it to be
Apr 15 15:11:51 <robbat2>	i think the only pending bug is bug 369185
Apr 15 15:11:53 <willikins>	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369185 "Official "g" logo's licensing under CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0 should mentioned at Gentoo Name and Logo Usage Guidelines"; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics; IN_P; sping:trustees
Apr 15 15:12:29 <rich0>	I think we were basically contemplating a re-write.
Apr 15 15:12:37 *	jospoortvliet (~superston@opensuse/member/jospoortvliet) has joined #gentoo-trustees
Apr 15 15:12:48 <dabbott>	rich0, ok
Apr 15 15:12:55 <rich0>	Just hasn't happened yet...
Apr 15 15:12:59 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, yep I agree.  We could make things easier for the Foundation by simplyfying our policy - so we don't have to do everything on a case by case basis
Apr 15 15:13:30 <robbat2>	we couldn't come to an agreement amongst ourselves before
Apr 15 15:13:37 <NeddySeagoon>	Should be ahve a (new) separate community make ?
Apr 15 15:13:43 <NeddySeagoon>	mark?
Apr 15 15:13:59 <robbat2>	about the mark protection vs ease of use
Apr 15 15:14:53 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets leave it open another month - if there is still no consensus, or progress,we can close the issue and stay with the status quo
Apr 15 15:15:04 <dabbott>	I would lean more to ease of use than protection
Apr 15 15:15:28 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, you have the floor   SFLC Update
Apr 15 15:15:37 <robbat2>	ok, next month for logos
Apr 15 15:16:02 <quantumsummers|c>	should we ask the sflc to assist with logo licensing?
Apr 15 15:16:08 <quantumsummers|c>	I can do that, no prob
Apr 15 15:16:28 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, not before we agree the sort of thing we want to do
Apr 15 15:16:40 <quantumsummers|c>	ok.
Apr 15 15:17:41 <quantumsummers|c>	as far as an update, I have re-established contact with a new attorney there name Aaron Williamson.
Apr 15 15:17:53 <quantumsummers|c>	lets see
Apr 15 15:18:10 <quantumsummers|c>	so the gentoo iranian irc channel ended up being no big deal
Apr 15 15:18:39 <quantumsummers|c>	we had a long discussion about gentoo in general
Apr 15 15:18:45 <NeddySeagoon>	it can get listed on our IRC channels list then ?
Apr 15 15:18:51 <quantumsummers|c>	yes
Apr 15 15:19:14 <robbat2>	it was added already i thought
Apr 15 15:19:18 <quantumsummers|c>	I thinkso
Apr 15 15:19:21 <NeddySeagoon>	even better
Apr 15 15:19:24 <quantumsummers|c>	this is not terribly new stuff
Apr 15 15:19:28 <quantumsummers|c>	key points of discussion: 1) 501c3 v 501c6 v public benefit c-corp
Apr 15 15:19:34 <quantumsummers|c>	^^ really interesting stuff here
Apr 15 15:20:14 <dabbott>	proceed :)
Apr 15 15:20:15 <quantumsummers|c>	Given that the IRS is treating floss groups with some predudice now, its good to know we have alternative options
Apr 15 15:20:47 <quantumsummers|c>	I think we all need to have a frank discussion about what the direction of the Foundation should be
Apr 15 15:20:49 <NeddySeagoon>	does that mean doing all the paperwork again ?
Apr 15 15:20:52 <quantumsummers|c>	no
Apr 15 15:21:14 <NeddySeagoon>	lets go with what the SFLC suggest then
Apr 15 15:22:01 <quantumsummers|c>	Aaron has not made a strong suggestion
Apr 15 15:22:11 <quantumsummers|c>	mainly, asked me to convey the options
Apr 15 15:22:22 <quantumsummers|c>	so that we could make a better informed decision
Apr 15 15:22:28 <quantumsummers|c>	here is the trouble ...
Apr 15 15:22:34 <NeddySeagoon>	It seems the IRS doesn't like us applying for  501c3 
Apr 15 15:22:51 <quantumsummers|c>	it has nothing to do with us, necessarily
Apr 15 15:23:03 <quantumsummers|c>	its the entire floss community that is having trouble
Apr 15 15:23:06 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, groups like us
Apr 15 15:23:20 <quantumsummers|c>	the IRS has not developed standard policy for dealing with floss groups
Apr 15 15:23:23 <quantumsummers|c>	it seems
Apr 15 15:23:41 <quantumsummers|c>	however, there are some hints that they are close to an internal policy
Apr 15 15:24:03 <NeddySeagoon>	if we continue with 501c3 and its rejected, can we try 501c6 later ?
Apr 15 15:24:05 <quantumsummers|c>	but, those hints are not good for Gentoo unless we drastically restructure our application
Apr 15 15:24:15 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: yes, I think so
Apr 15 15:24:21 <quantumsummers|c>	but times a wasting
Apr 15 15:24:57 <quantumsummers|c>	mainly, since Gentoo is not an educational, scientific or charitable institution we could have some difficulty
Apr 15 15:25:17 <quantumsummers|c>	the c6 is a good option, look at the linux foundation
Apr 15 15:25:20 <NeddySeagoon>	yep - provided we can reapply for another catagory later, we may as well go with 501c3 as we are about ready
Apr 15 15:25:49 <quantumsummers|c>	the thing with c6 is that its geared towards corporations and not necessarily individuals
Apr 15 15:25:55 <NeddySeagoon>	We claim  educational in our charter
Apr 15 15:25:59 <quantumsummers|c>	this is true
Apr 15 15:26:09 <quantumsummers|c>	which is what formed the basis of much of the narrative
Apr 15 15:26:59 <quantumsummers|c>	the fact that some businesses use gentoo to gain competitive advantage is  the tricky bit (according to Williamson)
Apr 15 15:27:08 <quantumsummers|c>	i.e. nasdaq, google, etc
Apr 15 15:27:09 <NeddySeagoon>	and gentoo devs (the majority of our members)  are mostly students working on their uni education 
Apr 15 15:28:27 <quantumsummers|c>	now, I have other opinions of the state of things from our CPAs, but they are not as in tune with the floss + irs relationship
Apr 15 15:28:36 <quantumsummers|c>	our CPAs think we have no trouble
Apr 15 15:28:41 <robbat2>	i don't agree that most devs are students anymore
Apr 15 15:28:42 <NeddySeagoon>	what gentoo is used for and how we support education through Gentoo is not really connected - Gentoo is free 
Apr 15 15:28:44 <quantumsummers|c>	we will have **
Apr 15 15:28:51 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: I agree
Apr 15 15:29:18 <robbat2>	10 years ago, yes, most devs were students, but the stable core has aged since then
Apr 15 15:29:23 <quantumsummers|c>	this brings me to the last bit on point 1, the so-called public benefit corp
Apr 15 15:29:30 <quantumsummers|c>	robbat2: this is true
Apr 15 15:29:53 <quantumsummers|c>	the public benefit corp has many good point. Its new to the US
Apr 15 15:30:12 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, interesting 
Apr 15 15:30:20 <quantumsummers|c>	so, its not well documented and not too many states have a legal framework for it yet
Apr 15 15:30:22 <dabbott>	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B_corporation
Apr 15 15:30:50 <quantumsummers|c>	note that sflc is based in NY
Apr 15 15:31:34 <NeddySeagoon>	they must publicly report on their social and environmental performances using established third-party standards.   ... sounds onourous
Apr 15 15:31:49 <quantumsummers|c>	heh no more that 501c3
Apr 15 15:32:06 <quantumsummers|c>	and much of the reporting is not mandatory (depends on the state)
Apr 15 15:32:21 <quantumsummers|c>	http://www.benefitcorp.net/
Apr 15 15:32:58 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll read up off line
Apr 15 15:33:05 <quantumsummers|c>	http://www.bcorporation.net/ is also good
Apr 15 15:33:10 <NeddySeagoon>	any more for the SFLC ?
Apr 15 15:33:19 <quantumsummers|c>	lets talk about this, I think it's worth discussing
Apr 15 15:33:34 <quantumsummers|c>	via mail
Apr 15 15:34:12 <NeddySeagoon>	bookmarked
Apr 15 15:34:27 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, agreed - move to the list
Apr 15 15:35:28 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, they are willing to assist with any other consideration we may have
Apr 15 15:35:43 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks quantumsummers 
Apr 15 15:35:46 <NeddySeagoon>	Update Financial Reports 
Apr 15 15:35:53 <quantumsummers|c>	sflc made a strong arguement that b-corp could beneft floss more than 501c3
Apr 15 15:36:06 <quantumsummers|c>	anyway, that is it from them that needs to be covered here
Apr 15 15:36:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Is this a case of Just do it, or is there more to it tan that ?
Apr 15 15:36:21 <quantumsummers|c>	just do ti
Apr 15 15:36:23 <quantumsummers|c>	*it
Apr 15 15:36:34 <NeddySeagoon>	any volunteers ?
Apr 15 15:36:34 <quantumsummers|c>	I have the data, finding the time is the hard part right now
Apr 15 15:36:42 <quantumsummers|c>	give the little one
Apr 15 15:36:44 <rich0>	Just do what?
Apr 15 15:36:51 <quantumsummers|c>	update the reports on 
Apr 15 15:36:54 <rich0>	b-corp, or reports?
Apr 15 15:36:58 <quantumsummers|c>	reports
Apr 15 15:37:06 <quantumsummers|c>	b-corp is not a light decision
Apr 15 15:37:10 <rich0>	agreed
Apr 15 15:37:13 <rich0>	hence my question
Apr 15 15:37:14 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, that won't get any easier.   What happened to the guy we we trying to recrit ?
Apr 15 15:37:29 <quantumsummers|c>	have not heard anything from him in awhile
Apr 15 15:37:35 <quantumsummers|c>	like several months
Apr 15 15:37:45 <NeddySeagoon>	Is it with him or us ?
Apr 15 15:37:59 <quantumsummers|c>	probably me
Apr 15 15:38:01 <quantumsummers|c>	not sure
Apr 15 15:38:22 <dabbott>	he did not come to any meetings 
Apr 15 15:38:46 <NeddySeagoon>	We need to follow up and get him on board, if he is still interested.  quantumsummers you have too many officer roles just now
Apr 15 15:38:59 <quantumsummers|c>	I agree
Apr 15 15:39:20 <quantumsummers|c>	I think the Secretary bit should be the main one to offload
Apr 15 15:39:31 <quantumsummers|c>	any takers?
Apr 15 15:39:34 <quantumsummers|c>	:)
Apr 15 15:39:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats your choice
Apr 15 15:39:50 <dabbott>	Max was more interested in helping with finance
Apr 15 15:40:00 <NeddySeagoon>	I would really like a non trustee to fill the role
Apr 15 15:40:26 <NeddySeagoon>	role -> office
Apr 15 15:40:26 <quantumsummers|c>	We need to have someone that has been around awhile with Gentoo
Apr 15 15:40:33 <dabbott>	Lets try the add again we got quantumsummers :)
Apr 15 15:40:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Having trustees as officers is a weakness
Apr 15 15:40:45 <dabbott>	ad
Apr 15 15:41:11 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, ok - are you offering to update it ?
Apr 15 15:41:17 <dabbott>	sure
Apr 15 15:41:39 <quantumsummers|c>	This officer role is an important one that requires a great deal of trust.
Apr 15 15:41:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks - I've lost all my pass phrases. Meanwhile nothing works  :(
Apr 15 15:42:16 <quantumsummers|c>	Given the responsibilities, mainly regarding being a signatory, we need to take care in giving that authority out
Apr 15 15:42:30 <quantumsummers|c>	since it could be misused, potentially
Apr 15 15:42:32 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, I agree.
Apr 15 15:43:22 <rich0>	Probably best to recruit help, and then build trust over time.
Apr 15 15:43:32 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, can anyone help with Financial Reports or is it a question of posting things that already exist ?
Apr 15 15:43:45 <rich0>	Ie, have them help with reports/etc, and give signing rights later once established.
Apr 15 15:43:58 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: this is a solid idea
Apr 15 15:44:07 <quantumsummers|c>	bring them in as assistant to the officer
Apr 15 15:44:18 <quantumsummers|c>	or trustee acting as officer
Apr 15 15:44:32 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, it will take 3 months to get them up to speed easily.  If they are still around, they are interested
Apr 15 15:44:49 <rich0>	Exactly
Apr 15 15:44:56 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, why don't you take the title of Treasure and I or rich0 can assume the role of  Secretary for now
Apr 15 15:45:09 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, that works - the key thing is to avoid you being a singkle poit of failure
Apr 15 15:45:25 <quantumsummers|c>	dabbott, NeddySeagoon: that works for me, please do 
Apr 15 15:45:42 <rich0>	sounds good
Apr 15 15:45:47 <quantumsummers|c>	who takes the job?
Apr 15 15:45:49 <rich0>	Treasurer benefits more from continuity
Apr 15 15:45:58 <rich0>	dabbott, if you want it all yours
Apr 15 15:46:08 <rich0>	But, I don't mind pitching in in any case
Apr 15 15:46:27 <quantumsummers|c>	whomever, I have the django app and database that contains the members and makes the xml members page
Apr 15 15:46:50 <dabbott>	I can do it while we look for a good replacement, thanks rich0 
Apr 15 15:47:02 <quantumsummers|c>	robbat2: I suppose we should put that somewhere besides my business infra
Apr 15 15:47:08 <quantumsummers|c>	the db is sqlite
Apr 15 15:47:09 <robbat2>	yes
Apr 15 15:47:17 <robbat2>	i can do whatever DB
Apr 15 15:47:22 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, is that you appointed Secretary and you will attempt to recruit an assistant ?
Apr 15 15:47:30 <robbat2>	(as an aside, i've learnt a crapload of Django in the last 2 months)
Apr 15 15:47:30 <quantumsummers|c>	I have been keeping the entire thing in git
Apr 15 15:47:36 <dabbott>	sure
Apr 15 15:47:38 <quantumsummers|c>	robbat2: I know :)
Apr 15 15:48:10 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, let me know my responsibilities
Apr 15 15:48:24 <quantumsummers|c>	dabbott: ok, I'll mail you
Apr 15 15:48:31 <dabbott>	send me an email, i am old
Apr 15 15:48:31 <quantumsummers|c>	its fairly straight forward
Apr 15 15:48:44 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, its for you to pass the office over to dabbott.  Do we have to update any filings ?
Apr 15 15:49:02 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: we will update this fall
Apr 15 15:49:09 <quantumsummers|c>	he is already listed as a director
Apr 15 15:49:13 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, that works.
Apr 15 15:49:19 <quantumsummers|c>	so really, its just adding secretary to that
Apr 15 15:49:21 <rich0>	dabbott, consider documenting those responsibilities in a web page while they're all written out anyway
Apr 15 15:49:26 <robbat2>	+1
Apr 15 15:49:36 <dabbott>	++
Apr 15 15:49:39 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, welcome to the office of Secretary. Consider your salary doubled
Apr 15 15:49:48 <NeddySeagoon>	:)
Apr 15 15:49:52 *	quantumsummers|c makes note of salary doubling
Apr 15 15:49:53 <dabbott>	thanks
Apr 15 15:50:08 <quantumsummers|c>	I shall halve my salary
Apr 15 15:50:15 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe
Apr 15 15:50:50 <rich0>	And I'll be noble and take the Steve Jobs $1 salary.  :)
Apr 15 15:50:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Moving on ...
Apr 15 15:50:55 <quantumsummers|c>	now, teh 2011 report, that is somewhere already
Apr 15 15:51:01 <quantumsummers|c>	not xml-ified
Apr 15 15:51:14 <quantumsummers|c>	a pdf maybe or plain text
Apr 15 15:51:31 <quantumsummers|c>	anyway, I will work on this next week,. I'll carve out some time
Apr 15 15:51:33 <rich0>	I see no harm in posting plain text reports on the website.
Apr 15 15:51:38 <quantumsummers|c>	ugly
Apr 15 15:51:39 <NeddySeagoon>	Its someones webspace IIRC
Apr 15 15:51:40 <rich0>	Sure, xml is nicer, but better to document something
Apr 15 15:52:08 <NeddySeagoon>	Moving on ...
Apr 15 15:52:09 <NeddySeagoon>	Its someones webspace IIRC
Apr 15 15:52:14 <dabbott>	i can do the xml
Apr 15 15:52:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Financial | Legal Status 
Apr 15 15:52:26 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thank you
Apr 15 15:52:31 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, CPA stuff
Apr 15 15:52:46 <quantumsummers|c>	first, rich0, the tax filings are due on Nov 15th
Apr 15 15:52:58 <quantumsummers|c>	this is due to our end of fiscal year in June
Apr 15 15:53:41 <rich0>	Did we file the final return for this year?
Apr 15 15:53:47 <quantumsummers|c>	for 2010 the CPA filed some provisional document that will likely need to be amended. However we have not heard anything from the irs about this
Apr 15 15:53:54 <quantumsummers|c>	this is a good thing
Apr 15 15:54:10 <NeddySeagoon>	do we only amend if the IRS ask ?
Apr 15 15:54:14 <quantumsummers|c>	no
Apr 15 15:54:34 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't want the IRS waiting for me at immigration :)
Apr 15 15:54:38 <quantumsummers|c>	we will amend when we submit an amendment for all the previous years
Apr 15 15:54:41 <quantumsummers|c>	heh
Apr 15 15:54:44 <quantumsummers|c>	you are fine
Apr 15 15:54:51 <quantumsummers|c>	its an interesting approach
Apr 15 15:54:51 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Apr 15 15:55:03 <rich0>	The reason I put April on the chart was that we had filed for an extension I think, so I just bumped the date rather than calling it done.  However, if we are calling it done I can update the tracker accordingly.
Apr 15 15:55:29 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: I see. I think I did not talk about the filing when it went in or something
Apr 15 15:55:39 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, it soulds like its done - the amendment is another task
Apr 15 15:55:46 <rich0>	Ok, I'll update the tracker
Apr 15 15:55:53 <quantumsummers|c>	last few months have been bad for me keeping everything together
Apr 15 15:55:55 <quantumsummers|c>	sorry for that
Apr 15 15:56:08 <quantumsummers|c>	so, ...
Apr 15 15:56:21 <NeddySeagoon>	have we had a bill from the CPA yet ?
Apr 15 15:56:31 <quantumsummers|c>	The week after next I get back working with the CPA again on things
Apr 15 15:56:57 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: I do not believe we have received anything yet, which is not surprising
Apr 15 15:57:05 <quantumsummers|c>	invoice-wise
Apr 15 15:57:19 <quantumsummers|c>	we are well below our estimated budget, that I certain
Apr 15 15:57:23 <quantumsummers|c>	*is
Apr 15 15:57:23 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, if you are not surprided, I'll not worry about it
Apr 15 15:57:37 <quantumsummers|c>	I have been using them for 7 years now.
Apr 15 15:57:44 <quantumsummers|c>	they invoice upon completion
Apr 15 15:57:54 <quantumsummers|c>	they are not finished with their scope
Apr 15 15:57:54 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, as long as they are not billing your
Apr 15 15:58:03 <NeddySeagoon>	your - > you
Apr 15 15:58:05 <quantumsummers|c>	heh, I would notice that I hope
Apr 15 15:58:21 <quantumsummers|c>	maybe that was why last year was so high ;)
Apr 15 15:58:32 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe.  
Apr 15 15:58:32 <quantumsummers|c>	I kid\
Apr 15 15:58:44 <quantumsummers|c>	I think we are on track with the financial
Apr 15 15:58:52 <NeddySeagoon>	any more on the CPA ?
Apr 15 15:59:03 <quantumsummers|c>	I will get some data together next week and get things updated on the web soon
Apr 15 15:59:06 <quantumsummers|c>	nothing mroe
Apr 15 15:59:07 <quantumsummers|c>	*more
Apr 15 15:59:31 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, you have the floor for         Foundation Activity Tracker Update
Apr 15 15:59:47 <rich0>	Ok, I'll capture the tax date change.
Apr 15 15:59:55 <rich0>	No other changes other than needing to resort it.  
Apr 15 16:00:05 <rich0>	I'm noting that next month we need to kick off  the election process
Apr 15 16:00:21 <quantumsummers|c>	yep, who is up?
Apr 15 16:00:31 <NeddySeagoon>	yep  Me
Apr 15 16:00:39 <quantumsummers|c>	who else?
Apr 15 16:01:09 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: will you run again?
Apr 15 16:01:10 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll need to look back at the election results
Apr 15 16:01:14 <rich0>	We have time to discuss planning more next month.  However, we need to announce the June recording date by the end of May to be ready for August
Apr 15 16:01:26 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: very good
Apr 15 16:02:05 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, probably - I'm finding it hard to find Gentoo time just now because work is silly but that should calm down later in the year.
Apr 15 16:02:25 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: good to hear. I endorse you.
Apr 15 16:02:40 <NeddySeagoon>	The recording date will be our meeting of 17 June
Apr 15 16:02:55 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, thank you
Apr 15 16:03:06 <quantumsummers|c>	that should give dabbott and I plenty of time to adjust/share/whatever the membership app
Apr 15 16:03:14 <quantumsummers|c>	and robbat2 too
Apr 15 16:03:20 <quantumsummers|c>	its not fancy or complicated
Apr 15 16:03:25 <quantumsummers|c>	in fact its quite trivial
Apr 15 16:03:39 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: you are most welcome
Apr 15 16:03:45 <NeddySeagoon>	the annouce can go out after our 20 May meeting
Apr 15 16:04:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Its the council election in June too
Apr 15 16:04:39 <dabbott>	I think I am up here are the results from 2010 http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/elections/trustees/2010/foundation-2010.xml
Apr 15 16:05:32 <dabbott>	I could step aside and be the secretary and let someone else get involved
Apr 15 16:05:46 *	diffreal has quit (Ping timeout: 272 seconds)
Apr 15 16:06:14 <robbat2>	i think i'm not going to run again as a trustee, but i'm not entirely decided yet.
Apr 15 16:06:46 <dabbott>	its nice to have someone from infra involved
Apr 15 16:06:58 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, lets see what interest we get from the membership
Apr 15 16:07:01 <quantumsummers|c>	neither of you can leave!
Apr 15 16:07:20 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, it makes life easier with an infra guy on the team
Apr 15 16:07:20 <rich0>	I'd definitely at least see what the field of nominees looks like, unless you really want a break
Apr 15 16:07:40 <rich0>	Don't asssume that there is this huge pool of strong candidates out there.  In some past years we've had trouble fielding 3, let alone 5
Apr 15 16:07:44 <dabbott>	not a big deal just a thought
Apr 15 16:08:00 <NeddySeagoon>	maybe we should have an infra officer ?
Apr 15 16:08:06 <dabbott>	yes
Apr 15 16:08:14 <robbat2>	i joined with the objective of more transparency in the foundation, and that has been achieved. i don't need a voter mandate to solve problems
Apr 15 16:09:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda item 4  Bugs
Apr 15 16:10:11 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need to go throgh the bugs list ?
Apr 15 16:10:34 <dabbott>	nothing new
Apr 15 16:10:37 <quantumsummers|c>	I have added 351045 to my list for sflc
Apr 15 16:10:38 <robbat2>	can we close 373241?
Apr 15 16:10:46 <robbat2>	*bug 373241
Apr 15 16:10:49 <willikins>	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/373241 "Fund the building of 3 MIPS build systems"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; mattst88:trustees
Apr 15 16:11:16 <quantumsummers|c>	these systems are up and running, producing stages?
Apr 15 16:11:27 <quantumsummers|c>	I do not follow mips
Apr 15 16:11:31 <robbat2>	i don't either
Apr 15 16:11:33 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, are the boxes complete and the monies paid/received ?
Apr 15 16:11:43 <quantumsummers|c>	I reimbursed Matt
Apr 15 16:12:00 <robbat2>	i left a comment to ask matt
Apr 15 16:12:07 <NeddySeagoon>	thats a yes - then
Apr 15 16:12:08 <robbat2>	no other bug work needed
Apr 15 16:12:15 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, sonunds good
Apr 15 16:12:31 <robbat2>	i want to see that the boxes are actually in use
Apr 15 16:12:39 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business LinuxExpo Funding 
Apr 15 16:13:05 <quantumsummers|c>	that was the thing with Theo right?
Apr 15 16:13:08 <quantumsummers|c>	agreed, robbat2 would you want that sicortex machine?
Apr 15 16:13:16 <quantumsummers|c>	:D
Apr 15 16:13:17 <quantumsummers|c>	its huge
Apr 15 16:13:36 <robbat2>	not really
Apr 15 16:13:49 <quantumsummers|c>	ah, not as big as I thought
Apr 15 16:14:17 <robbat2>	maybe in future, not rightn ow
Apr 15 16:14:30 <robbat2>	can we wrap up soon, i have a different meeting in 15 mins
Apr 15 16:14:32 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business LinuxExpo Funding 
Apr 15 16:14:55 <dabbott>	for LinuxExpo Funding we need a bug opened and some spicif amounts etc
Apr 15 16:14:58 <robbat2>	we already nixed travel funding for devs when tampakrap asked last meeting
Apr 15 16:15:06 <dabbott>	spacific
Apr 15 16:15:21 <robbat2>	*specific
Apr 15 16:15:26 <dabbott>	lol
Apr 15 16:15:27 <rich0>	Yup, suggest that he write up a proposal per the usual process.  Most likely the amount that should be planned on is a few hundred dollars like with most venues.
Apr 15 16:15:31 <dabbott>	thank you 
Apr 15 16:15:33 <NeddySeagoon>	yep.  Our budget won't do much more then provide DVDs, and decorate the stand
Apr 15 16:15:38 <quantumsummers|c>	tampakrap: see above
Apr 15 16:15:44 <quantumsummers|c>	re: linux expo
Apr 15 16:15:51 <tampakrap>	i'm watching
Apr 15 16:16:04 <quantumsummers|c>	tampakrap: why rotate the g logo?
Apr 15 16:16:09 <quantumsummers|c>	that is messed up, yo
Apr 15 16:16:24 <quantumsummers|c>	rotate the lizard and see how suzy feels
Apr 15 16:16:26 <tampakrap>	it's just an idea, to create a combined logo for the conf
Apr 15 16:16:31 <quantumsummers|c>	I see
Apr 15 16:16:34 <robbat2>	afk, doorbell
Apr 15 16:16:35 <quantumsummers|c>	well good fun
Apr 15 16:16:37 <rich0>	Actually, I thought the idea wasn't bad.
Apr 15 16:16:48 *	quantumsummers|c quiets down 
Apr 15 16:16:48 <rich0>	I'd just probably skew it a little, not a full 90 deg
Apr 15 16:17:23 <tampakrap>	ok
Apr 15 16:17:41 <tampakrap>	well, the important thing here is if the foundation (and the community) actually needs such an event
Apr 15 16:17:57 <tampakrap>	I believe it is a good opportunity for us, since the costs will be covered already
Apr 15 16:18:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup ...
Apr 15 16:18:37 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 20th May 2012 19:00 UTC
Apr 15 16:18:42 <NeddySeagoon>	works for me
Apr 15 16:18:45 <quantumsummers|c>	wfm
Apr 15 16:18:49 <dabbott>	fine here
Apr 15 16:19:12 <dabbott>	I will do the log and the motion
Apr 15 16:19:35 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, it looks like you get to post the log and do the motions this month
Apr 15 16:19:44 <NeddySeagoon>	and there are no emails
Apr 15 16:19:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor ...
Apr 15 16:21:04 <robbat2>	tampakrap, i'm in favour of the event, but i can't justify the foundation budget for airfares
Apr 15 16:21:24 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, ++
Apr 15 16:21:52 <tampakrap>	ok
Apr 15 16:22:07 <tampakrap>	will someone open a bug for the event then?
Apr 15 16:22:07 <robbat2>	tampakrap, also, the date isn't listed in the original email at all
Apr 15 16:22:29 <tampakrap>	it will be held in mid-october, no final date yet
Apr 15 16:23:51 *	NeddySeagoon starts waving the gavel
Apr 15 16:23:54 <dabbott>	ok I will send an email to the trustees to help me define the Secretary duties, I have a couple questions
Apr 15 16:24:23 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, look in the bylaws ...
Apr 15 16:24:37 <dabbott>	ok
Apr 15 16:24:52 <NeddySeagoon>	any more open floor ?
Apr 15 16:25:19 <quantumsummers|c>	none from me
Apr 15 16:25:28 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting

