Feb 19 14:00:19 *	quantumsummers_ bangs the gavel to start the meeting
Feb 19 14:00:28 <quantumsummers_>	1. Roll call
Feb 19 14:00:31 *	quantumsummers_ is present
Feb 19 14:00:32 <rich0>	here
Feb 19 14:00:40 <dabbott>	present
Feb 19 14:00:44 <quantumsummers_>	we know robbat2 is here as well
Feb 19 14:00:55 <quantumsummers_>	who is logging?
Feb 19 14:01:17 <dabbott>	i am
Feb 19 14:01:27 <quantumsummers_>	cool, I have a log as well
Feb 19 14:01:35 <quantumsummers_>	3. Old Business
Feb 19 14:01:45 <dabbott>	refresh the agenda i added a few bug numbers
Feb 19 14:01:45 <quantumsummers_>	Gentoo Logo Usage Policy
Feb 19 14:02:33 <dabbott>	this is still ongoing
Feb 19 14:03:36 <quantumsummers_>	yes, it looks like progress however.
rich0, was there anything you found since last meeting?
Feb 19 14:04:01 <rich0>	Not yet - posting a first draft agreement is still on
my to-do list.
Feb 19 14:04:49 <quantumsummers_>	ok.
Feb 19 14:05:04 <quantumsummers_>	anything else on this topic?
Feb 19 14:05:15 <robbat2>	hi
Feb 19 14:05:46 <dabbott>	hi robbat2 
Feb 19 14:06:05 <rich0>	Nothing from me
Feb 19 14:06:19 <quantumsummers_>	ok
Feb 19 14:06:26 <quantumsummers_>	no updates from sflc
Feb 19 14:06:43 <dabbott>	plan B?
Feb 19 14:07:36 <quantumsummers_>	while I am thinking about it, let me write
a quick email
Feb 19 14:10:02 *	ABCD (~quassel@gentoo/developer/abcd) has joined
#gentoo-trustees
Feb 19 14:11:01 <quantumsummers_>	ok
Feb 19 14:11:21 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: lets see what response I get, or
we will need to create a plan b
Feb 19 14:11:47 <quantumsummers_>	as I do not have any good ideas for
finding council that has the expertise of sflxc
Feb 19 14:11:50 <quantumsummers_>	*sflc
Feb 19 14:11:52 <dabbott>	sure
Feb 19 14:12:22 <dabbott>	I was thinking of contacting the large distros for
referrals 
Feb 19 14:12:34 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: that is not a bad idea at all.
Feb 19 14:13:26 <quantumsummers_>	reminds me I need to contact fenwick
people about the trademark engagement. I have a feeling that to continue the
engagement there, we may have to pay a bit.
Feb 19 14:13:36 <quantumsummers_>	given that they tried to drop us
Feb 19 14:13:43 <quantumsummers_>	or at least it seemed that way
Feb 19 14:15:24 <quantumsummers_>	I'll just call on Tuesday (Monday is a
holiday)
Feb 19 14:16:18 <quantumsummers_>	ok, on my calendar
Feb 19 14:16:51 <quantumsummers_>	they may be able to assist with some
elements of logo policy since it interrelates with trademark
Feb 19 14:16:55 <quantumsummers_>	we shall see
Feb 19 14:17:12 <quantumsummers_>	ok, rich0 anything on the tracker?
Feb 19 14:18:42 <rich0>	Nothing new - next item that is coming due is our
taxes.
Feb 19 14:18:50 <quantumsummers_>	yep.
Feb 19 14:18:50 <rich0>	Assuming we haven't filed them yet.
Feb 19 14:19:08 <quantumsummers_>	I thought I entered this already
Feb 19 14:19:28 <rich0>	The last I had heard we had filed for an extension.
Feb 19 14:19:35 <rich0>	That will come due in April.
Feb 19 14:19:37 <quantumsummers_>	I have a meeting next week to go over
everything with the CPA. I think they are either finished or nearly so
Feb 19 14:19:54 <rich0>	Great news - just let me know when it is filed or feel
free to update the tracker.
Feb 19 14:19:57 <quantumsummers_>	so, I'll sign and we'll file asap
Feb 19 14:20:01 <quantumsummers_>	yessir
Feb 19 14:20:13 <dabbott>	good work quantumsummers_ :)
Feb 19 14:20:13 <quantumsummers_>	sorry for getting off track there
Feb 19 14:20:19 <quantumsummers_>	thanks
Feb 19 14:20:36 <rich0>	Yes, definitely great work!  That will be a major
milestone for the Foundation.
Feb 19 14:20:57 <quantumsummers_>	yes, we should be all caught up finally!
Feb 19 14:21:38 <quantumsummers_>	ok, so open bugs
Feb 19 14:21:57 <quantumsummers_>	out of order
Feb 19 14:22:06 <quantumsummers_>	here is one that we should address now
Feb 19 14:22:18 <quantumsummers_>	bug 390205
Feb 19 14:22:21 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/390205
"app-text/notecase-pro licensing"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; CONF;
johneed:maksbotan
Feb 19 14:22:24 <dabbott>	some of the bugs are duplicated down in the agenda 
Feb 19 14:22:34 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: ah yes. no biggie
Feb 19 14:22:58 <quantumsummers_>	so that notecase-pro
Feb 19 14:23:12 <quantumsummers_>	I think that one is getting punted from
the tree, or am I mistaken?
Feb 19 14:23:27 <rich0>	Not that I've heard.
Feb 19 14:23:37 <rich0>	Or are you suggesting it should be punted?
Feb 19 14:23:42 <quantumsummers_>	ah, ok. reading again, it looks like we're
in teh clear
Feb 19 14:24:09 <rich0>	I do agree that at the very least the LICENSE in the
ebuild must be fixed asap.
Feb 19 14:24:25 <rich0>	The fact that there isn't much maintainer action makes
me wonder if it is maintained.
Feb 19 14:24:28 <quantumsummers_>	we do not need to mirror anything, so we
put the onus on the end user. Yes, the LICENSE needs to be updated
Feb 19 14:24:46 <quantumsummers_>	I don't know anything about the package,
so..
Feb 19 14:25:35 <rich0>	My suggestion is that the maintainer has already
failed to respond - probably best to just treeclean it.  I have no objections
to it being unmasked and kept if the LICENSE is first fixed.
Feb 19 14:25:51 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: I fully agree with that course of
action
Feb 19 14:25:56 <robbat2>	+1
Feb 19 14:26:05 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: mind updating the bug?
Feb 19 14:26:08 <dabbott>	+1
Feb 19 14:26:10 <rich0>	Will do - right now.
Feb 19 14:26:14 <quantumsummers_>	cc treecleaners maybe
Feb 19 14:26:27 <quantumsummers_>	I don't want this one to fall off the
radar
Feb 19 14:26:55 <rich0>	Will do
Feb 19 14:27:58 <quantumsummers_>	thanks
Feb 19 14:28:02 <quantumsummers_>	bug 293309
Feb 19 14:28:05 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/293309
"x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme Gentoo branding (see comment #19)"; Gentoo Linux,
GNOME; CONF; fastijum:licenses
Feb 19 14:28:32 <quantumsummers_>	to answer robbat2's question in comment
#24, yes I think we need to update the logo page to reflect the new license
Feb 19 14:30:04 <rich0>	Agreed, we should also note in the comments that a
unified trademark/copyright license policy is forthcoming.
Feb 19 14:30:04 <quantumsummers_>	as far as that bug, I assume that the
choice of CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0 allows this bug to be closed with some
guidance?
Feb 19 14:30:05 <dabbott>	I am fine with that, robbat2 can you update the
page?
Feb 19 14:30:25 <dabbott>	do we need a motion?
Feb 19 14:30:43 <rich0>	I do agree with ulm's comment that sampling+ is a bit
of a hack - which is what we'll aim to fix with that longer-term.
Feb 19 14:31:07 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: I don't think so, since we
already decided about the CCPL... license
Feb 19 14:31:36 <robbat2>	ok, i'll work out a rewording and email it to the
alias for review?
Feb 19 14:31:43 <quantumsummers_>	sounds great robbat2
Feb 19 14:32:12 <quantumsummers_>	anything else here?
Feb 19 14:33:41 <robbat2>	not for that bug
Feb 19 14:33:43 <quantumsummers_>	ok then Bug 371543
Feb 19 14:33:47 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/371543
"Offer vector graphic of newage/modern "gentoo" text"; Website www.gentoo.org,
Graphics; CONF; sping:trustees
Feb 19 14:34:09 <quantumsummers_>	waiting on sping
Feb 19 14:34:46 <quantumsummers_>	Bug 402405
Feb 19 14:34:48 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/402405
"Legal Acceptance of Polish Facebook Fan Site"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals;
CONF; rich0:trustees
Feb 19 14:35:37 <quantumsummers_>	It appears ok to me, I guess.
Feb 19 14:35:41 <rich0>	My sense is that they're basically compliant already
with the policy as far as the Foundation is concerned.  Separately we can
mention that they might want to inquire with the German group.
Feb 19 14:36:03 <dabbott>	fine here
Feb 19 14:36:21 <robbat2>	+1
Feb 19 14:36:29 <quantumsummers_>	ok, that works
Feb 19 14:36:56 <rich0>	Who wants to reply to them?
Feb 19 14:37:01 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: can you update the bug an notify
the group?
Feb 19 14:37:05 <quantumsummers_>	*and
Feb 19 14:37:05 <rich0>	Will do.
Feb 19 14:37:09 <quantumsummers_>	thank you sir!
Feb 19 14:37:12 <dabbott>	thanks rich0 
Feb 19 14:37:33 <quantumsummers_>	ok, now Bug 296766
Feb 19 14:37:36 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766
"Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo
Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; robbat2:trustees
Feb 19 14:37:39 <quantumsummers_>	this should be fully updated now.
Feb 19 14:37:42 <dabbott>	Bug 296766 this can be closed 
Feb 19 14:37:43 <willikins>	dabbott: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766
"Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo
Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; robbat2:trustees
Feb 19 14:38:00 <quantumsummers_>	I received confirmation from Mr. Chew with
a copy of the state docs
Feb 19 14:38:05 <quantumsummers_>	yes, it can be closed
Feb 19 14:38:06 <dabbott>	just checked looks good
Feb 19 14:38:14 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: will you do the honors?
Feb 19 14:38:20 <dabbott>	sure
Feb 19 14:38:25 <quantumsummers_>	many thanks
Feb 19 14:38:48 <quantumsummers_>	ok Bug 369185
Feb 19 14:38:50 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369185
"Official "g" logo's licensing under CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0 should mentioned
at Gentoo Name and Logo Usage Guidelines"; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics;
IN_P; sping:trustees
Feb 19 14:39:02 <quantumsummers_>	this is WIP thanks to robbat2
Feb 19 14:39:39 <quantumsummers_>	http://www.facebook.com/gentoolinuxpolska
Feb 19 14:39:41 <quantumsummers_>	oops
Feb 19 14:39:46 <quantumsummers_>	Bug 371541
Feb 19 14:39:48 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/371541
"Offer vector graphic of "gentoo linux TM" text"; Website www.gentoo.org,
Graphics; IN_P; sping:trustees
Feb 19 14:40:21 <quantumsummers_>	I guess when someone makes said graphic,
we can offer it
Feb 19 14:40:24 <quantumsummers_>	moving along
Feb 19 14:40:55 <quantumsummers_>	Bug 351045
Feb 19 14:40:58 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/351045
"www site needs a privacy policy"; Website www.gentoo.org, Social Contract;
CONF; robbat2:infra-bugs
Feb 19 14:41:07 <quantumsummers_>	waiting on some contact/response from sflc
Feb 19 14:41:31 <quantumsummers_>	robbat2: do you have something in mind we
could use? I know there were some drafts floating around.
Feb 19 14:41:53 <robbat2>	quantumsummers_, you said you were contacting the
attorney last, and I left it after that
Feb 19 14:41:56 <quantumsummers_>	geh, over a year since my last comment
Feb 19 14:42:18 <quantumsummers_>	man I hope Daniel responds to me
Feb 19 14:42:38 <quantumsummers_>	Bug 285549
Feb 19 14:42:41 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549
"Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other;
IN_P; belendax:trustees
Feb 19 14:43:01 <quantumsummers_>	I never received anything from sflc on
this question
Feb 19 14:43:16 <quantumsummers_>	I think the issue is more political than
anything
Feb 19 14:43:19 <robbat2>	ok, i'm going to add -ir to the list
Feb 19 14:43:26 <quantumsummers_>	robbat2: wait a sec please
Feb 19 14:43:42 <quantumsummers_>	can we use the language instead?
Feb 19 14:44:11 <quantumsummers_>	which is farsi I believe?
Feb 19 14:44:32 <dabbott>	there may be many
Feb 19 14:44:34 <rich0>	Targetting the language is a good way to sidestep the
legal issues.
Feb 19 14:45:03 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: that is my thought
Feb 19 14:45:16 <rich0>	Still, I see this more as providing information.
Gentoo isn't actually providing any funding or infrastructure to any Iranian
interest per-se.
Feb 19 14:45:27 <robbat2>	Iran has ~75 languages
Feb 19 14:46:07 <rich0>	If we get some kind of takedown we could of course
comply immediately until it can be cleared up legally.  However, I don't know
that embargos mean that you can't link to websites or IRC channels.
Feb 19 14:46:20 <rich0>	I'd think that Freenode has the bigger problem.
Feb 19 14:46:46 <robbat2>	~11 of those are more than 1M speakers
Feb 19 14:46:52 <quantumsummers_>	iran is just a touchy situation right now,
but yeah I doubt it will be trouble for us unless there is some bad deed that
occurs in that channel
Feb 19 14:47:06 <quantumsummers_>	then its just PR trouble
Feb 19 14:47:15 <quantumsummers_>	seems fine to go ahead, from my pov
Feb 19 14:47:18 <robbat2>	Facebook supports Iran since the green revolution
far more than we would be
Feb 19 14:47:40 <quantumsummers_>	ok, lets go ahead with it robbat2
Feb 19 14:47:53 <dabbott>	I am for adding the channel
Feb 19 14:47:54 <quantumsummers_>	do we have a consensus?
Feb 19 14:48:00 <robbat2>	+1 from me
Feb 19 14:48:04 <quantumsummers_>	+1
Feb 19 14:48:12 <rich0>	+1
Feb 19 14:48:16 <quantumsummers_>	that does it
Feb 19 14:48:20 <quantumsummers_>	proceed robbat2
Feb 19 14:48:31 <robbat2>	ok, will do. next bug
Feb 19 14:48:58 <quantumsummers_>	Bug 373241
Feb 19 14:48:58 <quantumsummers_>	keep it open for now, nothing to do
however
Feb 19 14:49:01 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/373241
"Fund the building of 3 MIPS build systems"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals;
IN_P; mattst88:trustees
Feb 19 14:49:30 <quantumsummers_>	moving along
Feb 19 14:49:31 <dabbott>	ongoing tracker
Feb 19 14:49:38 <quantumsummers_>	the next is Bug 403705
Feb 19 14:49:40 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/403705
"games-action/koth-0.8.0 invalid ebuild header"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; CONF;
ulm:qa
Feb 19 14:50:07 <quantumsummers_>	did anyone contact the guy on this ebuild?
Feb 19 14:50:38 <quantumsummers_>	my position, and I think robbat2 agrees,
is that the ebuild is trivial enough not to warrant anything special, and that
we can simply update the header
Feb 19 14:51:17 <quantumsummers_>	there is no "special contribution of code"
in that ebuild
Feb 19 14:51:41 <quantumsummers_>	this does bring up a much larger issue,
that of copyright for contributors, etc
Feb 19 14:51:59 <rich0>	Tend to agree.  If Arcady complains we could rewrite
the parts not already in the ebuild.skel.
Feb 19 14:52:17 <rich0>	My feeling is that we should stick with the current
devmanual policy.
Feb 19 14:52:29 <quantumsummers_>	I agree
Feb 19 14:52:34 <dabbott>	+1
Feb 19 14:52:44 <rich0>	If a contributor actually modifies the copyright
header we should point that out in the bug before simply changing it and give
them a little time to express any objections.
Feb 19 14:53:06 <quantumsummers_>	if the header is changed, repoman should
reject the commit
Feb 19 14:53:11 <quantumsummers_>	now
Feb 19 14:53:15 <rich0>	However, in general we should not commit into portage
anything that violates the current policy, unless a considered change to the
policy is first made.
Feb 19 14:53:16 <quantumsummers_>	that was fixed I think
Feb 19 14:53:57 <rich0>	Yup - I was thinking more in terms of a
proxy-maintainer submitting something non-compliant.  A dev should correct
this, note it in the bug, and give the contributor a few days to object.
Feb 19 14:54:09 <quantumsummers_>	thing is, all contributors are listed in
the Changelog. In the case that its long, then its in the cvs repo 
Feb 19 14:54:19 <rich0>	Agreed.
Feb 19 14:54:22 <quantumsummers_>	yeah, rich0, that makes sense
Feb 19 14:54:43 <rich0>	Otherwise I can see a big legal mess down the road if
that gets out of hand.
Feb 19 14:55:11 <quantumsummers_>	yeah, and maintenance mess too
Feb 19 14:55:46 <rich0>	Ok, so should we just comment on the bug and turn it
back to QA?
Feb 19 14:56:17 <dabbott>	yes my position is we support the dev manual
Feb 19 14:56:18 <quantumsummers_>	yeah. seems ok to me
Feb 19 14:56:29 <quantumsummers_>	its been that way for quite a long itme
Feb 19 14:56:32 <quantumsummers_>	*time
Feb 19 14:56:52 <quantumsummers_>	robbat2: anything to add?
Feb 19 14:56:58 <robbat2>	noe
Feb 19 14:56:59 <robbat2>	*nope
Feb 19 14:57:21 <quantumsummers_>	ok
Feb 19 14:57:35 <rich0>	I can note this in the bug if desired.
Feb 19 14:57:42 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: please do
Feb 19 14:57:55 <dabbott>	thanks
Feb 19 14:58:13 <quantumsummers_>	ok, Foundation Membership for developer
Ian Stakenvicius, aka axs
Feb 19 14:58:23 <quantumsummers_>	all in favor, vote aye
Feb 19 14:58:28 <dabbott>	aye
Feb 19 14:58:37 <quantumsummers_>	aye
Feb 19 14:58:49 <quantumsummers_>	rich0 and robbat2?
Feb 19 14:59:01 <rich0>	aye
Feb 19 15:01:18 <quantumsummers_>	well, we have enough to pass
Feb 19 15:01:26 <quantumsummers_>	so he is approved by majority vote
Feb 19 15:01:29 <robbat2>	+1
Feb 19 15:01:39 <rich0>	WORKSFORME
Feb 19 15:01:53 <quantumsummers_>	I'll email real fast
Feb 19 15:02:01 <quantumsummers_>	ok done
Feb 19 15:02:11 <quantumsummers_>	Bug 404217
Feb 19 15:02:14 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/404217
"Becoming a sponsor with 2 text links"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P;
grant:trustees
Feb 19 15:02:24 <quantumsummers_>	Motion: Deny this request.
Feb 19 15:02:58 <quantumsummers_>	insufficient contribution to warrant, imo
Feb 19 15:03:56 <dabbott>	robbat2, opinion
Feb 19 15:03:56 <robbat2>	seconded
Feb 19 15:03:59 <rich0>	Tend to agree.  We don't really have a cash-donation
policy and it wouldn't hurt to have one, but this is clearly not much of a
contribution compared to our current sponsors.  We should be nice about the
reply though.  I think the sense has been that we're always reluctant to trade
cash for sponsorship anyway.
Feb 19 15:04:31 <quantumsummers_>	ok, please vote on the motion to deny. aye
== deny
Feb 19 15:04:37 <rich0>	aye
Feb 19 15:04:38 <robbat2>	aye
Feb 19 15:04:40 <quantumsummers_>	aye
Feb 19 15:04:42 <dabbott>	aye
Feb 19 15:04:45 <quantumsummers_>	carried
Feb 19 15:05:00 <quantumsummers_>	I will write the fellow, unless someone
else prefers to do it
Feb 19 15:05:20 <dabbott>	thanks quantumsummers_ he is a gentoo user seems
ok 
Feb 19 15:05:44 <quantumsummers_>	cool, I applaud his intentions, but we are
just not setup to allow this at this time.
Feb 19 15:05:46 <dabbott>	i see hin on the gentoo-user mail list 
Feb 19 15:06:03 <dabbott>	*him
Feb 19 15:06:14 <rich0>	Maybe some day if we ever get donation badges or
something on the forums that might be an appropriate level of acknowledgment.
Feb 19 15:06:15 <quantumsummers_>	I just wish people would donate and not
ask for something in return like links, it would make things much easier
Feb 19 15:06:31 <rich0>	Many people already do exactly that.
Feb 19 15:06:32 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: I like that idea. I've seen it in a
few places
Feb 19 15:07:02 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: yes, the majority of donors don't
ask for anything
Feb 19 15:07:26 <quantumsummers_>	alright Date of Next Meeting - 18th Mar
2012 19:00 UTC
Feb 19 15:07:29 <quantumsummers_>	wfm
Feb 19 15:07:40 <quantumsummers_>	anyone object to that date/time?
Feb 19 15:07:47 <rich0>	Since being CC'ed on the paypal thank-you's I've been
amazed by the level of generosity we benefit from.  Might be a nice topic for
a news article or something...
Feb 19 15:07:51 <dabbott>	fine here
Feb 19 15:08:08 <robbat2>	checking my cal
Feb 19 15:08:15 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: sure. good idea you have. I can get
any data you need for that endeavor
Feb 19 15:08:16 <rich0>	That works.
Feb 19 15:08:21 <robbat2>	works
Feb 19 15:08:28 <quantumsummers_>	ok, set Date of Next Meeting - 18th Mar
2012 19:00 UTC
Feb 19 15:08:30 <rich0>	Note that in the US that is after the DST change.
Feb 19 15:08:38 <rich0>	I suspect not so in Europe.
Feb 19 15:08:57 <quantumsummers_>	its still UTC :)
Feb 19 15:09:18 <quantumsummers_>	Any other business 
Feb 19 15:09:59 <quantumsummers_>	anybody?
Feb 19 15:10:04 <rich0>	none here
Feb 19 15:10:13 <quantumsummers_>	none from me
Feb 19 15:10:21 <robbat2>	none
Feb 19 15:10:26 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: ?
Feb 19 15:10:36 <dabbott>	nope, i will post the log and 2 motions and
minutes
Feb 19 15:10:41 <quantumsummers_>	thanks
Feb 19 15:10:47 <quantumsummers_>	I've got one more email to write
Feb 19 15:10:55 <rich0>	Oh, not business, but a quick note that the tresurer's
report was never posted from the August meeting.
Feb 19 15:11:03 <rich0>	No need to discuss - just wanted to mention.
Feb 19 15:11:24 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: noted. I need to get that done. I
thought I put that up somewhere in txt form though
Feb 19 15:11:30 <quantumsummers_>	hmm, on my list
Feb 19 15:11:33 <quantumsummers_>	sorry for that
Feb 19 15:11:40 <quantumsummers_>	Open Floor
Feb 19 15:12:09 <quantumsummers_>	anyone who wishes to bring up business for
the consideration by the board, plaese do so now.
Feb 19 15:12:28 <quantumsummers_>	wow that was a terrible sentence
Feb 19 15:12:31 <quantumsummers_>	ok, going once
Feb 19 15:12:37 <quantumsummers_>	going twice ...
Feb 19 15:12:53 <quantumsummers_>	thrice the fem fatale ...
Feb 19 15:13:25 <quantumsummers_>	Meeting is hereby adjorned. Many  thanks
for attending and participating!
Feb 19 15:13:27 <dabbott>	quantumsummers_, we need to update
http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/index.xml if you send me the info
i will update it
Feb 19 15:13:29 *	quantumsummers_ bangs gavel
