--- Log opened Sun May 20 00:00:40 2012
20:02  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the May 2012 meeting of the Gentoo Foundarion Inc. Trustees
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> roll call
20:02 <@dabbott> here
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, will be absent
20:02 <@quantumsummers> here
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ?
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum - robbat2 can join in later.  Lets start
20:03 <@robbat2> yo
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Initiate Trustee Election.  
20:04 <@quantumsummers> that doc looks fine to me
20:04 <@quantumsummers> with the dates, etc
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> I propose that we adopt the http://goo.gl/wMXeF schedule
20:04 <@quantumsummers> seconded
20:04 -!- warlordfff [~quassel@opensuse/member/warlordfff] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> vote please
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
20:05 <@quantumsummers> Aye
20:05 <@robbat2> aye
20:05 <@dabbott> aye
20:05 <@robbat2> but i'm going to paste here
20:05 <@robbat2> as the link could change
20:05 <@quantumsummers> good
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> carried.
20:05 <@robbat2> Recording Date: 17 June
20:05 <@robbat2> Nominations: 18 June, 00:00:01 => 15 July, 23:59:59, that's four weeks. 
20:05 <@robbat2> Voting 20 Jul, 00:00:01 => 16 Aug 23:59:59  that's four weeks too. 
20:05 <@robbat2> Results published at the AGM of 19 Aug,  with the newly elected trustees tipped off in advance,  so that they can attend.
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> OK
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll put an email to -project and -dev in case anyone wants to join
20:06 <@quantumsummers> thanks Roy.
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Gentoo Logo Usage Policy  - Any Change?  
20:07 <@quantumsummers> not that I am aware of
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't see a need for any major surgery
20:07 <@robbat2> nil
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> SFLC Update quantumsummers you have the floor
20:08 <@quantumsummers> Nothing significant to report from SFLC today.
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Update Financial Reports - dabbott 
20:08 <@quantumsummers> dabbott is holding on me
20:08 <@dabbott> just waiting for help from quantumsummers 
20:09 <@quantumsummers> however, I have assembled all the info and plan to work on that today
20:09 <@dabbott> more a reminder than anything else
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, dabbott have you done the sec/treasuerer split yet ?
20:09 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: what is your availability today?
20:09 <@dabbott> open today
20:09 <@quantumsummers> dabbott, robbat2, what do you want to do about a repo for the membership db?
20:10 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: ok cool. Lets talk after the meeting
20:10 <@dabbott> sounds good :)
20:10 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, if we can go with a good merge format (not binary files), just tell me the access requirements needed on it
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Certified Public Accountant and 501(c)(3) registration status - quantumsummers your turn again
20:10 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: I was just using sqlite, but we can use mysql 
20:11 <@robbat2> sqlite w/ SQL dumps stored in Git?
20:11 <@quantumsummers> there are some other ways too, I guess. Since the data is not too large
20:11 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: I was thinking of the django data dump
20:11 <@robbat2> that works too
20:11 <@quantumsummers> its clean enough to read too
20:11 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:12 <@quantumsummers> lets do that
20:12 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: are you limited availability today? we can get together on this during the week
20:12 <@robbat2> yeah, today's not good for me
20:12 <@quantumsummers> I'm in a similar boat
20:12 <@quantumsummers> lets try for soon then
20:13 <@quantumsummers> I can get it in shape well enough
20:13 <@quantumsummers> then just need repo
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Certified Public Accountant and 501(c)(3) registration status - quantumsummers your turn again
20:13 <@quantumsummers> cpa-related; everything is looking on track for taxes, etc
20:13 <@quantumsummers> the 501c3 app is still needing attention in a couple areas
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> anything we need to do ourselves ?
20:14 <@quantumsummers> I really need to email a conversation so it stays in one place
20:15 <@quantumsummers> yes, there are some things we can do to move this along
20:15 -!- dastergon [~dastergon@gentoo-el.org] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:15 <@quantumsummers> let me email early in the week and we can have a discussion
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> As rich0 is out, we will skip the  Foundation Activity Tracker Update
20:15 <@quantumsummers> need to have a conversation with our cpa again
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:16 <@quantumsummers> sorry for not having much to say here
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> np quantumsummers 
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Bugs
20:16 <@dabbott> fosscomm
20:17 <@quantumsummers> right, that one is ready to go?
20:17 < skiarxon> we are here
20:17 < skiarxon> in case you need us
20:17 <@quantumsummers> as in I can send a paypal?
20:17 <@robbat2> yup, just need to pay them the agreed amount I think
20:17 <@quantumsummers> which is 270 usd?
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> its whatever ... in the local currency
20:17 < skiarxon> it is 270 euros
20:18 < skiarxon> and i think around 350 dollars
20:18 <@robbat2> 270 EUR yes
20:18 <@quantumsummers> ah ,yeah ok
20:18 <@quantumsummers> makes sense
20:18 <@quantumsummers> I can do that.
20:18 < skiarxon> we have posted a link with the receipts
20:18 <@quantumsummers> skiarxon: thanks for that, looking now
20:18 < skiarxon> since we couldnt upload a pic
20:18 <@quantumsummers> skiarxon: who gets reimbursed?
20:18 < skiarxon> nikhatzi: 
20:18 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, grab the image link from the comment to keep for your records
20:18 < skiarxon> i will post the iban etc
20:19 <@quantumsummers> can you put the paypal account email address in the bug
20:19 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: done
20:19 < skiarxon> i will do that now quantumsummers
20:19 <@quantumsummers> skiarxon: thanks
20:19 < skiarxon> btw we have also written a report
20:19 < skiarxon> for the event
20:19 < skiarxon> as promised
20:19 <@quantumsummers> thanks
20:19 <@quantumsummers> I hope it was nice
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> there is nothing to vote on here is there - its all agreed before
20:20 <@quantumsummers> yep. I can take care of the payment
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> skiarxon, can we publish the report ?
20:21 < skiarxon> yeap
20:21 < skiarxon> i think we only miss the pics
20:21 < skiarxon> nikhatzi: ^^
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> skiarxon, I'll leave that to PR
20:21 < skiarxon> ok i will send them an email then
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> skiarxon, dabbott is PR   :)
20:22 < skiarxon> yeap i know :)
20:22 <@dabbott> nikhatzi: skiarxon can you email pr@gentoo.org with the report and pics for a news item
20:22 < skiarxon> yeap we can do that 
20:22 < nikhatzi> do you want the pics attached or want us to upload them to gentoo-el server and give you the links?
20:23 <@dabbott> great thanks :)
20:23 <@dabbott> link would be fine
20:23 < nikhatzi> ok :)
20:23 <@dabbott> again thanks for putting this event together
20:24 < skiarxon> np
20:24 < skiarxon> it was really fun for us too :)
20:24 < nikhatzi> it was our pleasure :)
20:24 < skiarxon> and preview pic
20:24 < skiarxon> if you want
20:24 < skiarxon> https://fbcdn-sphotos-a.akamaihd.net/hphotos-ak-snc6/181302_175021202627718_100003595171445_254159_1563131695_n.jpg
20:24 < skiarxon> :)
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> any more bugs  ?
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> nice pic
20:26 <@quantumsummers> the only bug I would like to close is Alec's
20:26 <@quantumsummers> I sent payment, I mainly want him to ACK
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> leave the bug until he comments on it with the ok
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I just poked him about it
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Cleanup
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 17th Jun 2012 19:00 UTC
20:27 <@robbat2> checking my cal
20:27 <@quantumsummers> that is father's day in the USA (my first one)
20:28 <@quantumsummers> I can do a short meeting
20:28 <@robbat2> i might be busy too, short meeting?
20:28 <@quantumsummers> but I believe I will have family here
20:28 <@quantumsummers> short meeting will work for me.
20:28 -!- tomkap [~tomkap@infernus.tomkap.gr] has left #gentoo-trustees ["Leaving"]
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> You will need to drop heavy hints to your wife as you wee one is still too young to get you a card :)
20:29 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: good point
20:29 <@quantumsummers> I guess that new grill will have to wait until he has a job too
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> We can prune the agenda to just new members if that helps
20:29 <@quantumsummers> we just had Mother's day here and Linc managed a card
20:29 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: that sounds fine to me
20:29 <@quantumsummers> we could do that via email as well
20:30 <@quantumsummers> the recording date is the important thing
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Do you want to skip/move the June meeting ?
20:31 <@quantumsummers> no skipping
20:31 <@dabbott> I can send an email out on the 10th so the meeting on the 17 will be short
20:31 -!- nikhatzi [~nikhatzi@unaffiliated/nikhatzi] has left #gentoo-trustees []
20:31 <@quantumsummers> lets try to do as much as we can via email
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> that works
20:32 <@quantumsummers> then those of us that are available longer can do the open floor, etcv
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:32 <@robbat2> i've got one new-business followup item in a sec
20:32 <@quantumsummers> ok'
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log - (I've got my ssh pass phrase back)
20:33 -!- dastergon [~dastergon@gentoo-el.org] has left #gentoo-trustees ["http://quassel-irc.org - Chat comfortably. Anywhere."]
20:33 <@dabbott> all yours, I will do the log and minutes plus the one motion
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> and do the emails
20:33 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, specifically, for you, did you follow up re Taos donation?
20:33 <@dabbott> ok log is yours :)
20:33 <@dabbott> i type way too slow
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, Oops I missed that agenda item - sorry about that
20:34 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: let me see, I know I talked with someone about it. I'll email the person now.
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, 'taco offered to help
20:35 <@quantumsummers> right
20:35 <@quantumsummers> looks like I emailed her and have not heard back.
20:35 <@robbat2> ok, thanks
20:35 <@quantumsummers> I am fairly certain the mail left my server
20:35 <@quantumsummers> let me email again, or actually, I will call her
20:36 <@quantumsummers> I think I still have her number
20:36 <@quantumsummers> or will get it from taco
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ...
20:37  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
