<quantumsummers_>	1) Roll Call.
Jan 15 14:01:45 <rich0>	here
Jan 15 14:01:47 <dabbott>	present 
Jan 15 14:01:51 <NeddySeagoon>	My body is here, my mind is still in UTC-6
Jan 15 14:02:17 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: that is where I am, well -7 I guess
Jan 15 14:02:20 <NeddySeagoon>	I guess I'm logging too
Jan 15 14:02:20 <quantumsummers_>	robbat2: ping
Jan 15 14:02:24 <quantumsummers_>	cool
Jan 15 14:02:55 <quantumsummers_>	we have quorum
Jan 15 14:03:03 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: thanks for  logging
Jan 15 14:03:09 <NeddySeagoon>	np
Jan 15 14:03:15 <quantumsummers_>	3) Old Business
Jan 15 14:03:29 <quantumsummers_>	Gentoo Logo Usage Policy
Jan 15 14:03:42 <quantumsummers_>	At the last meeting I posted to the -nfp list
Jan 15 14:04:06 <NeddySeagoon>	I didn't see any responses 
Jan 15 14:04:22 <quantumsummers_>	there have been 2 reponses
Jan 15 14:04:43 <quantumsummers_>	orig msg http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-nfp/msg_2a11b1233168b157b0af53674e743ed6.xml
Jan 15 14:05:24 <quantumsummers_>	Dale and rich0 were the responding parties
Jan 15 14:05:27 <rich0>	Ok, I don't think that is really anything actionable.
Jan 15 14:05:31 <quantumsummers_>	no\
Jan 15 14:06:02 <quantumsummers_>	So, in a sense, we have no additional input from our community
Jan 15 14:06:20 <NeddySeagoon>	yes
Jan 15 14:06:34 <quantumsummers_>	I think the way forward here is to post some policy document to everyone for review
Jan 15 14:06:38 <rich0>	or a big input of "whatever..."
Jan 15 14:06:44 <quantumsummers_>	-core -dev
Jan 15 14:07:01 <rich0>	Agreed - I think we've talked through many of the issues and have a sense for where we want to be.
Jan 15 14:07:04 <quantumsummers_>	surely there will be more than that, given our esteemed heritage of bike shedding
Jan 15 14:07:17 <quantumsummers_>	by our I mean all devs, of course
Jan 15 14:07:19 <quantumsummers_>	:)
Jan 15 14:07:30 <NeddySeagoon>	-foundation-annouce and -nfp  
Jan 15 14:07:33 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: glad we agree
Jan 15 14:07:38 <rich0>	Do it at the same time as a all-in-/usr thread and that will take the heat off.
Jan 15 14:07:51 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: heh, yes
Jan 15 14:08:08 <NeddySeagoon>	heh
Jan 15 14:08:28 <quantumsummers_>	Now, who wants take the jop of  writing the draft?
Jan 15 14:08:35 <quantumsummers_>	any volunteers?
Jan 15 14:08:47 <quantumsummers_>	who wants to lead the effort?
Jan 15 14:09:06 <rich0>	My activity tracker is wrapping up, so I could step up on something else.
Jan 15 14:09:12 <NeddySeagoon>	my time is going to be limited until at least June/July
Jan 15 14:09:19 <dabbott>	what would you change from the current policy
Jan 15 14:09:38 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: please take the task.
Jan 15 14:09:52 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: write your draft, then pass it around to the board
Jan 15 14:10:06 <rich0>	Ok, I'll take it.  I'd probably try to base the new policy on one of the other distros and incorporate both copyright and trademark into a cohesive policy.
Jan 15 14:10:10 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: I think its really only to refine the commercial usage, per previous discussions
Jan 15 14:10:24 <rich0>	It would be fairly debian-like, except that we're not allowing commercial use as they do.
Jan 15 14:10:33 <rich0>	(For pressing CDs, etc.)
Jan 15 14:10:40 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: that sounds fine, we just want to remain as backwards compatible with the current policy where possible
Jan 15 14:11:09 <rich0>	Yup - I think our current policy is already fairly close.  The goal will be to avoid disrupting anybody already making use of the current policy.
Jan 15 14:11:16 <rich0>	I'll send out something in a week or two.
Jan 15 14:11:21 *	rich0 crosses fingers...
Jan 15 14:11:27 <dabbott>	thanks rich0 
Jan 15 14:11:32 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: are you fine with discussing the actual drafts via email?
Jan 15 14:11:42 <quantumsummers_>	I am sure rich0 would welcome feedback from trustees
Jan 15 14:11:43 <dabbott>	sure
Jan 15 14:11:45 <NeddySeagoon>	the new policy should not be retrospective
Jan 15 14:12:02 <quantumsummers_>	right, current agreements must be honored
Jan 15 14:12:44 <rich0>	Sure, although we might not put that in writing.  We'll have to figure that out.
Jan 15 14:13:11 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: lets worry about that after we have a good draft for the current policy
Jan 15 14:13:12 <quantumsummers_>	anything else on this topic?
Jan 15 14:14:22 <NeddySeagoon>	not from me
Jan 15 14:14:32 <quantumsummers_>	ok. looking forward to reading the draft
Jan 15 14:14:47 <quantumsummers_>	SFLC 
Jan 15 14:15:51 <quantumsummers_>	that one, I emailed Ravicher after the last meeting and have received no response. I'll keep trying him, perhaps the holidays caused delay
Jan 15 14:16:58 <quantumsummers_>	Financial and Legal status: I communicated with our agent in NM and passed along the info regarding our receipt, etc
Jan 15 14:17:25 <NeddySeagoon>	our 30 days must be up now ?
Jan 15 14:17:28 <quantumsummers_>	Heather stated she would contact me again when she received some communication from NMPRC
Jan 15 14:17:36 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: we made the deadline, no problem
Jan 15 14:17:45 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Jan 15 14:18:01 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: we have certified mail receipt that proves it
Jan 15 14:18:10 <NeddySeagoon>	even better
Jan 15 14:18:14 <quantumsummers_>	now its in processing, I assume. I have not looked at the site
Jan 15 14:18:29 <dabbott>	still the same as today
Jan 15 14:18:41 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: thanks for checking.
Jan 15 14:19:04 <quantumsummers_>	I'll follow up with Heather on Monday, to check in
Jan 15 14:19:51 <quantumsummers_>	I need a couple mins to assist my wife with something, sorry she just returned from the grocer
Jan 15 14:19:53 <quantumsummers_>	brb
Jan 15 14:21:00 <rich0>	FYI - Mon is a holiday in many places in the US
Jan 15 14:21:12 <rich0>	Martin Luther King, Jr, day
Jan 15 14:21:15 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon,  did you want the log in info for cafepress?
Jan 15 14:21:31 <dabbott>	I added Larry shirts http://www.cafepress.com/officialgentoo/1552836
Jan 15 14:21:39 <quantumsummers_>	sorry
Jan 15 14:21:46 <quantumsummers_>	ah yeah, Tuesday then
Jan 15 14:22:11 <quantumsummers_>	ok to continue?
Jan 15 14:22:18 <dabbott>	yes
Jan 15 14:23:24 <quantumsummers_>	ok, for the CPA bit, they should be ready to file the previous years material soon, based on conversations last week. 
Jan 15 14:23:39 <quantumsummers_>	this will get us caught up fully
Jan 15 14:24:13 <quantumsummers_>	I have a meeting at the firm next week to discuss this and other unrelated matters
Jan 15 14:25:01 <quantumsummers_>	once that is all submitted, I believe it will be time to complete and submit the 1023.
Jan 15 14:25:16 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, what happening with our new official, to take on some of your work ?
Jan 15 14:25:29 <quantumsummers_>	it seems that the irs is now sending put letters to some groups that have been waiting 2 years now
Jan 15 14:25:56 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: I have not had enough time to figure that out lately
Jan 15 14:26:11 <NeddySeagoon>	heh - the IRS were not waiting for me at Atlanta, so I suppose that was a good sign :)
Jan 15 14:26:29 <rich0>	When you transition work to the new help, consider asking them to document the processes in a format suitable for the activity tracker/etc.
Jan 15 14:26:32 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: heheh, that would  be a shock
Jan 15 14:26:41 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, It would be good to get him on board before you are up to your neck in nappies :)
Jan 15 14:26:43 <rich0>	No harm in documenting what we do to make it easier to take on help.
Jan 15 14:26:43 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: yessir
Jan 15 14:27:17 <NeddySeagoon>	nappies -> diapers
Jan 15 14:27:29 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: I guessed that
Jan 15 14:27:32 <dabbott>	quantumsummers_, fell free to send me anything you want to guide xml
Jan 15 14:27:42 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: thanks man
Jan 15 14:27:44 <dabbott>	s/fell/feel
Jan 15 14:27:46 <quantumsummers_>	I will take you up on that
Jan 15 14:28:04 <rich0>	Yes, that activity tracker should be viewed as communal at this point - feel free to edit away!
Jan 15 14:28:28 <quantumsummers_>	if anything I sense I will be up late at night with the baby wrapped into the thing we have that does that, sitting at the computer working on things
Jan 15 14:28:33 <quantumsummers_>	speaking of the tracker, rich0, care to say anything more about it?
Jan 15 14:28:37 <rich0>	Document tasks how you will (the election is just a guide), and we can link from it.
Jan 15 14:28:47 <quantumsummers_>	thanks
Jan 15 14:29:02 <rich0>	Nothing really to add except that I'm trying to keep it up to date and let me know if you see otherwise.  I did sort it by next due date.
Jan 15 14:29:16 <quantumsummers_>	looks good
Jan 15 14:29:23 <rich0>	Taxes due in April (with extension), and we need to do election planning in May.
Jan 15 14:29:59 <quantumsummers_>	when do we want to set the next recording date?
Jan 15 14:30:04 <quantumsummers_>	for the election?
Jan 15 14:30:09 <quantumsummers_>	same time?
Jan 15 14:30:11 <rich0>	We had talked about June last time.
Jan 15 14:30:15 <NeddySeagoon>	the meeting before nominations open
Jan 15 14:30:16 <quantumsummers_>	yeah
Jan 15 14:30:27 <dabbott>	http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/motions/index.xml
Jan 15 14:30:36 <rich0>	And then an Aug election, with the new board sitting at the conclusion of the annual meeting, or something like that?
Jan 15 14:30:38 <dabbott>	Trustee elections in Aug, nominations in July, June is recording date, AGM in AUG
Jan 15 14:30:39 <quantumsummers_>	seems that we wanted to make sure the election provided a nice transition into the annual meeting
Jan 15 14:30:46 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, yep
Jan 15 14:30:51 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: yes
Jan 15 14:31:06 <quantumsummers_>	ok excellent then
Jan 15 14:31:29 <quantumsummers_>	shall we move to Open Bugs or is there anything else from anyone on the Old Business?
Jan 15 14:32:36 <quantumsummers_>	ok, Open Bugs
Jan 15 14:32:45 <rich0>	On the topic of bugs and old business - did we ever set up a trustee-only group?
Jan 15 14:32:47 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: please close bug 304853
Jan 15 14:32:47 <rich0>	sorry
Jan 15 14:32:50 <willikins>	quantumsummers_: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; IN_P; mihel:trustees
Jan 15 14:32:57 <quantumsummers_>	sorry rich0, just saw that
Jan 15 14:33:05 <quantumsummers_>	yes, we did in bugz
Jan 15 14:33:33 <quantumsummers_>	that was taken care of awhile back, I forgot to mention it
Jan 15 14:34:02 <rich0>	ok, maybe after the meeting can somebody send instructions clarifying how to use it?
Jan 15 14:34:05 <rich0>	we can move on...
Jan 15 14:34:53 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: sure
Jan 15 14:35:17 <quantumsummers_>	well, I can tell how to use it quickly
Jan 15 14:36:02 <quantumsummers_>	In the case that a bug is assigned to the Gentoo Foundation product, there will be a checkbox in the section titled "Only users in all of the selected groups can view this bug:"
Jan 15 14:36:20 <quantumsummers_>	which is to the right of the Add and attachment box
Jan 15 14:36:42 <quantumsummers_>	there is a check box on all bugs that says Gentoo Developers
Jan 15 14:36:42 <rich0>	Does that only apply to new bugs?
Jan 15 14:36:59 <quantumsummers_>	you can retro-apply it, as long as Gentoo Foundation is the product
Jan 15 14:37:02 <rich0>	Looking at bug 389989 I only see the Gentoo Devs one.
Jan 15 14:37:28 <quantumsummers_>	I see Gentoo Board of Trustees 
Jan 15 14:37:41 <quantumsummers_>	perhaps you are not in the trustees group or something
Jan 15 14:37:47 <quantumsummers_>	I'll ask infra
Jan 15 14:37:47 <rich0>	perhaps
Jan 15 14:37:55 <quantumsummers_>	I see it on that bug
Jan 15 14:38:10 <rich0>	Ok, we can follow-up with them.
Jan 15 14:38:23 <quantumsummers_>	or poke robbat2 to check
Jan 15 14:38:34 <dabbott>	I only see Gentoo Developers also
Jan 15 14:38:39 <quantumsummers_>	weird
Jan 15 14:38:52 <quantumsummers_>	I have a test, just a sec
Jan 15 14:39:11 <quantumsummers_>	now try to reload that bug
Jan 15 14:39:29 <dabbott>	You are not authorized to access bug #389989. 
Jan 15 14:39:33 <quantumsummers_>	my bad, please re-try
Jan 15 14:39:38 <quantumsummers_>	ok 
Jan 15 14:39:44 <rich0>	Not authorized
Jan 15 14:39:48 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: /
Jan 15 14:39:50 <quantumsummers_>	?
Jan 15 14:39:53 <rich0>	I don't even see the foundation in the product list...
Jan 15 14:39:54 <quantumsummers_>	are you guys logged in?
Jan 15 14:39:58 <rich0>	Yup
Jan 15 14:39:59 <rich0>	:)
Jan 15 14:40:02 <dabbott>	yep
Jan 15 14:40:12 <quantumsummers_>	weird
Jan 15 14:40:22 <_robbat2|irssi>	ah crap, i realize I missed most of this
Jan 15 14:40:22 <quantumsummers_>	well, I suspect you two are not in the group
Jan 15 14:40:31 <_robbat2|irssi>	too much going on
Jan 15 14:40:31 <quantumsummers_>	hi _robbat2|irssi, no worries
Jan 15 14:40:34 <rich0>	Hmm, another item to add to the elections to-do list - after election ping infra to update groups, aliases, etc.
Jan 15 14:40:40 <_robbat2|irssi>	i need to run and catch a flight
Jan 15 14:40:48 <_robbat2|irssi>	anything critical for me?
Jan 15 14:40:54 <rich0>	Not critical
Jan 15 14:40:55 <quantumsummers_>	_robbat2|irssi: ok, we can catch up later
Jan 15 14:40:58 <_robbat2|irssi>	other than that election stuff
Jan 15 14:40:58 <rich0>	Whenever you can get to it.
Jan 15 14:41:03 <dabbott>	hi _robbat2|irssi  
Jan 15 14:41:13 <dabbott>	have a safe flight
Jan 15 14:41:21 <_robbat2|irssi>	bye, thanks.
Jan 15 14:41:26 <quantumsummers_>	cya
Jan 15 14:42:11 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, I don't even see bug 389989  :(
Jan 15 14:42:26 <quantumsummers_>	https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=389989
Jan 15 14:42:33 <quantumsummers_>	I am the only one that can see it?
Jan 15 14:42:44 <rich0>	Well, it is secure, alright!
Jan 15 14:42:48 <quantumsummers_>	crazy, ok well I'll get infra to do that
Jan 15 14:42:48 <dabbott>	then fix it yourself :)
Jan 15 14:43:19 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: the reporter, trustees, and the peeps CC'd can see it
Jan 15 14:44:09 <rich0>	Yup, well, minus the trustees, apparently.
Jan 15 14:44:10 <quantumsummers_>	do you want me to add you all to the CC list?
Jan 15 14:44:27 <dabbott>	no
Jan 15 14:44:29 <rich0>	Not a big deal either way if we can fix it in a few days.
Jan 15 14:44:32 <dabbott>	we can wait
Jan 15 14:44:41 <quantumsummers_>	heh, I just added roch
Jan 15 14:44:42 <rich0>	It will be easier to test if we aren't added.
Jan 15 14:44:43 <quantumsummers_>	*Rich
Jan 15 14:44:47 <quantumsummers_>	sorry :D
Jan 15 14:44:57 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, qorks ok in firefox
Jan 15 14:45:03 <NeddySeagoon>	works*
Jan 15 14:45:11 <quantumsummers_>	ok NeddySeagoon so you can see the bug?>
Jan 15 14:45:45 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, yes and the check box   Gentoo Board of Trustees 
Jan 15 14:45:48 <quantumsummers_>	weird that the bug does not show up in the list created by that query 
Jan 15 14:45:55 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: ah, great
Jan 15 14:46:33 <quantumsummers_>	I think the other bugs in that list are stationary
Jan 15 14:47:11 <NeddySeagoon>	what about #296766
Jan 15 14:47:31 <NeddySeagoon>	bug #296766
Jan 15 14:47:33 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; robbat2:trustees
Jan 15 14:47:48 <quantumsummers_>	that is waiting on the NMPRC to process the filing
Jan 15 14:47:54 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 15 14:48:04 <quantumsummers_>	as far as I know, that is the case
Jan 15 14:48:56 <quantumsummers_>	I don't know why they didn't update it last year
Jan 15 14:49:06 <NeddySeagoon>	its the same filing as our other stuff that got delayed ?
Jan 15 14:49:16 <quantumsummers_>	maybe its every doc with NM has to have 2 signatures
Jan 15 14:49:24 <rich0>	I don't know why it takes them two months to process a form...
Jan 15 14:49:48 <quantumsummers_>	Heather told me only one was needed for that doc and for the annual form, she was clearly wrong about the annual form
Jan 15 14:49:49 <NeddySeagoon>	its a burocarcy(sp)
Jan 15 14:50:15 <quantumsummers_>	the state of missouri is not so slow
Jan 15 14:50:19 <quantumsummers_>	anyway
Jan 15 14:50:21 <rich0>	Well, good to know we'll be qualified to work in the NM state government by the time we're done with this...
Jan 15 14:50:28 <quantumsummers_>	lol
Jan 15 14:50:29 <quantumsummers_>	yeah
Jan 15 14:50:32 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe
Jan 15 14:50:41 <quantumsummers_>	alright any other bugs to visit?
Jan 15 14:51:19 <quantumsummers_>	one thing to note, we have already approved this awhile back, but I will be purchasing the final set of HDDs for the servers google bought us fairly soon
Jan 15 14:51:36 <NeddySeagoon>	sounds good
Jan 15 14:51:53 <rich0>	What is up with the MIPS servers?
Jan 15 14:52:00 <rich0>	bug 373241
Jan 15 14:52:03 <willikins>	rich0: https://bugs.gentoo.org/373241 "Fund the building of 3 MIPS build systems"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; mattst88:trustees
Jan 15 14:52:14 <rich0>	Is that going anywhere, or should it be closed?
Jan 15 14:52:20 <quantumsummers_>	I think its on-going
Jan 15 14:52:28 <quantumsummers_>	the servers are up I think
Jan 15 14:52:42 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, I understand that they are working 
Jan 15 14:53:01 <rich0>	Ok, wasn't sure if this was done from a funding perspective or if more was to come.  Didn't see anything actionable.
Jan 15 14:53:03 <quantumsummers_>	man, that scicortex system mentioned in that bug would be awesome
Jan 15 14:53:22 <quantumsummers_>	they ran gentoo on all those
Jan 15 14:53:41 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, so far as I am aware, we have only reimbursed RAM so far
Jan 15 14:54:02 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: I reimbursed the sata controller
Jan 15 14:54:05 <quantumsummers_>	via paypal
Jan 15 14:54:09 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 15 14:54:18 <rich0>	probably should note that on the bug
Jan 15 14:54:51 <NeddySeagoon>	should probably poke matt88 to see if he needs the further approved funding
Jan 15 14:55:12 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: will note that nw
Jan 15 14:57:05 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott, rich0 you should be in the trustees bugz group now\
Jan 15 14:57:20 <quantumsummers_>	just received conf from idl0r 
Jan 15 14:57:32 <dabbott>	yep thanks 
Jan 15 14:58:01 <quantumsummers_>	great
Jan 15 14:58:26 <quantumsummers_>	ok, anything else in the bugs?
Jan 15 14:59:31 <rich0>	Nothing here - I'll try to address one of the logo-related ones in my policy update.
Jan 15 14:59:39 <quantumsummers_>	rich0: sounds good
Jan 15 14:59:54 <NeddySeagoon>	nothing from me
Jan 15 14:59:57 <quantumsummers_>	we have no new business and no memberships to consider
Jan 15 15:00:15 <quantumsummers_>	sorry, dabbott anything else?
Jan 15 15:00:22 <dabbott>	no
Jan 15 15:00:30 <quantumsummers_>	ok. :)
Jan 15 15:00:37 <quantumsummers_>	Date of Next Meeting - 19th Feb 2012 19:00 UTC that work
Jan 15 15:00:38 <quantumsummers_>	?
Jan 15 15:00:58 <dabbott>	fine here
Jan 15 15:00:59 <NeddySeagoon>	maybe - I may be in Houston
Jan 15 15:01:17 <NeddySeagoon>	or totally wasted again having just got back
Jan 15 15:01:37 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: would you like to have the meeting moved back or forward a week?
Jan 15 15:02:06 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, my travel is not yet firm ... lets leave it as is until I know more
Jan 15 15:02:17 <quantumsummers_>	I should be fine chairing again if you need a break
Jan 15 15:02:19 <quantumsummers_>	ok 
Jan 15 15:02:28 <quantumsummers_>	so DONM is set
Jan 15 15:02:35 <quantumsummers_>	19th Feb 2012 19:00 UTC
Jan 15 15:02:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Like I said in my email - this is going on for about 6 months
Jan 15 15:03:05 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: well we should try to get together for a drink!
Jan 15 15:03:30 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, sounds good
Jan 15 15:03:36 <quantumsummers_>	if you can fly thru somewhere that is within a couple or 3 hours , I would drive
Jan 15 15:03:55 <quantumsummers_>	or just come visit for a day D
Jan 15 15:04:04 <NeddySeagoon>	For Houston, it will be Heathrow to Houston
Jan 15 15:04:11 <quantumsummers_>	nice
Jan 15 15:04:21 <quantumsummers_>	well that is better than the alternative
Jan 15 15:04:25 <quantumsummers_>	any other business from the board
Jan 15 15:04:31 <rich0>	None here
Jan 15 15:04:32 <NeddySeagoon>	none from me
Jan 15 15:04:44 <quantumsummers_>	none from me
Jan 15 15:04:47 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: ?
Jan 15 15:04:50 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon, I will do the log the new location for future reference is http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes/2012/20120115_trustee_log.txt
Jan 15 15:04:55 <dabbott>	none here
Jan 15 15:05:01 <quantumsummers_>	dabbott: thanks
Jan 15 15:05:11 <quantumsummers_>	no motions to update
Jan 15 15:05:13 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks - I'll post the long Tue or Wed
Jan 15 15:05:21 <NeddySeagoon>	log*
Jan 15 15:05:24 <quantumsummers_>	no emails to send 
Jan 15 15:05:37 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, thanks for chairing
Jan 15 15:05:40 <quantumsummers_>	Lets open the floor to the channel?
Jan 15 15:05:46 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Jan 15 15:05:46 <dabbott>	yes thanks quantumsummers_ 
Jan 15 15:05:50 <quantumsummers_>	NeddySeagoon: my pleasure
Jan 15 15:06:00 <quantumsummers_>	hopefully I didnt rush anyone
Jan 15 15:06:11 <NeddySeagoon>	not at all
Jan 15 15:06:16 <quantumsummers_>	anyone for open floor?
Jan 15 15:06:25 <quantumsummers_>	open floor going once
Jan 15 15:06:30 <quantumsummers_>	open floor going twice
Jan 15 15:06:42 <quantumsummers_>	three times a lady, anyone?
Jan 15 15:07:12 *	quantumsummers_ borrows NeddySeagoon's gavel and bangs it
Jan 15 15:07:15 <quantumsummers_>	meeting adjorned
