20:07  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the July Trustees meeting
20:07 <@rich0> hi all
20:07 <@robbat2> yo
20:07 <@quantumsummers> hi
20:07 <@dabbott> hello team
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm logging
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> and we are all here too
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Old Business ... Trustee Election   There are four candidates, so we need a vote.  Details are up to Elections
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> That covers the election schedule too.  I will give them a prod to get the results out in time for the AGM in Aug
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more on the election ?
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Next ... Gentoo Logo Usage Policy 
20:11 <@robbat2> sorry, i haven't touched it since 2 meetings ago
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Since we haven't done a lot, do we need to change the current ad hoc approach to requests?
20:11 <@rich0> No real action there, but to be honest the more I think about it the less I think much needs to change.
20:11 <@robbat2> formalize that ad-hoc approval?
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm with you rich0 
20:12 <@robbat2> formalize that it's per request, and just keep a public page of granted requests somewhere
20:12 <@quantumsummers> seems fine
20:12 <@dabbott> fine with me
20:12 <@quantumsummers> in the case that we desire, we can always revoke
20:12 <@rich0> That sounds good to me, the exception being community-use under the existing agreement, which I think is already fine.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Its not like we get a lot of requests, so its not a lot of work to array on as we are.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, yep
20:13 <@quantumsummers> as a side note, you all saw that our GENTOO mark is now incontestable
20:13 <@rich0> The biggest issue with the current policy is trademark vs copyright, but we don't need to totally revamp to adjust that.
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need a formal motion ?   Probably not as ware intend to carry on as is
20:13  * quantumsummers still has not received the bill
20:13 <@rich0> Don't think so.
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, lets drop the topic from the agenda
20:13 <@quantumsummers> +1
20:14 <@rich0> If the bill totals to what they estimated ($700?) I'd be sure to thank them - that just covers the US gvt fees.
20:14 <@quantumsummers> will do!
20:14 <@rich0> ++
20:14 <@dabbott> ok will do we can continue on mail list
20:14 <@rich0> ++
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you might want to ask about the bill.  
20:14 <@quantumsummers> I will email on Monday
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:15 <@quantumsummers> there was some confusion regarding where to send it
20:15 <@rich0> (FYI all - big thunderstorm here - usually not an issue but if I disappear that's why...)
20:15 <@robbat2> ask them, and if it really was gratis like that, should they be on our sponsors page?
20:15 <@quantumsummers> I told them the PO box
20:15 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: will do
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you have the floor ... SFLC Update
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, only if they want to be
20:15 <@quantumsummers> nothing new to report re: sflc
20:15 <@quantumsummers> Anyone have anything for me to bring up to sflc?
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Nothing new
20:16 <@robbat2> nil from me
20:16 <@quantumsummers> I plan to schedule a call once the CPA is done with tax prep
20:16 <@quantumsummers> just to cover some bases
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> sounds good
20:16 <@quantumsummers> should be in the next couple weekd
20:16 <@quantumsummers> weeks*
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> Update Financial Reports - quantumsummers dabbott are you done splitting the sec/treasurer roles ? 
20:17 <@quantumsummers> no
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> bummer ... what still needs to happen ?
20:17 <@quantumsummers> dabbott + robbat2, need a private git repo for the member list app/data
20:17 <@quantumsummers> that is all
20:18 <@quantumsummers> other than that, I think its handled
20:18 <@robbat2> seperate repos for app vs data?
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, dabbott thanks
20:18 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: up to you. I have it all in one dir now
20:18 <@quantumsummers> not very large
20:18 <@robbat2> unless you see a specific need to keep the source code private?
20:18 <@quantumsummers> no
20:18 <@quantumsummers> there is not much code to it
20:19 <@robbat2> email me a tarball and I'll look
20:19 <@quantumsummers> I'll audit to insure there is nothing I should delete
20:19 <@quantumsummers> then email
20:19 <@quantumsummers> I may have an smtp passwd in there
20:19 <@quantumsummers> easy to remove
20:19 <@robbat2> config, app, data split if needed
20:19 <@robbat2> like the gentoo-ads
20:20 <@quantumsummers> can do, if needed
20:20 <@quantumsummers> the app is not really meant to run all the time
20:20 <@robbat2> yeah
20:20 <@quantumsummers> at least I had not designed it as such, just the devserver
20:20 <@quantumsummers> to make the xml file, etc
20:20 <@quantumsummers> could make it more robust
20:20 <@quantumsummers> if needed/desired
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, robbat2 can you sort out the detial outside the meeting
20:21 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:21 <@robbat2> yup, next item
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> Update Financial Reports 
20:21 <@quantumsummers> re: reports, I think that should be about done. I need to see what is left
20:21 <@quantumsummers> of course, with updates for this past fiscal year
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, wasn't dabbott going to do some of the web pages ?
20:21 <@quantumsummers> which is over. I have 1 month of data outstanding, which I will grab later today
20:22 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes, we updated FY2011 iirc
20:22 <@dabbott> this one is done http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/2011-treasurer-report.xml
20:22 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: anything oustanding that you recall?
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> yes.  Its the AGM in August - we will need officers reports for the past 18 months as we moved the AGM
20:22 <@quantumsummers> no prob
20:22 <@dabbott> http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/ <= this needs to be updated
20:23 <@quantumsummers> I will have FY2011-2012 done soon.
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, drop that item from the agenda please.  Its AGM stuff only next month
20:23 <@dabbott> ok
20:23 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: ah yes. ok I'll get started on that today. Been busy
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, before the 19 Aug ?
20:23 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:23 <@quantumsummers> surely yes
20:23 <@dabbott> this needs to be reviewed http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/funds.xml
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> thats the right answer
20:23  * quantumsummers increased his paygrade
20:24 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: that page should really be completely blown up and re-written
20:24  * quantumsummers adds that to his todo
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> 2*zero is still zero  :(
20:24 <@quantumsummers> 1000*0
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
20:24 <@quantumsummers> ah well
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, the whole page or just the finacancal reports links ?
20:25 <@dabbott> Gentoo Foundation Funding and Expenditures http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/funds.xml
20:25 <@quantumsummers> the page is old, sflc did ont like certain elements
20:26 <@quantumsummers> need to start from scratch
20:26 <@quantumsummers> I will write it up
20:26 <@dabbott> is it replaced by http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/funding-request-policy.xml
20:26 <@quantumsummers> ah, sort of replaced
20:26 <@quantumsummers> partially
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll try to spend some time on it
20:26 <@quantumsummers> we should have a page that discussed where we spend money
20:26 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: just no dev rewards
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> yes ... we can take some of that from the history of the last 4 years or so
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Yeah - we cannot reward our members
20:27 <@quantumsummers> correcty
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you still have the floor Financial | Legal Status 
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Certified Public Accountant
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> These guys have been working for us for about a year - still no bill ?
20:28 <@quantumsummers> they will bill when the work is complete
20:28 <@quantumsummers> which will be shortly
20:29  * rich0 braces himself...
20:29 <@quantumsummers> I have June data to get to them, then they have everything
20:29 <@quantumsummers> its not going to be bad, they are very reasonable
20:29  * rich0 sighs in relief.  :)
20:29 <@quantumsummers> anyway, I think that once we have fy2011 done, the other years will fall into place nicely as amended returns
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> ok.  I have a feeling a annual bill would be good, so we don't get big bills every other year.  It fits in with everyones accouncts better 
20:30 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes. once this in all caught up, it wil be annual and cost ~900USD
20:30 <@rich0> Sounds good - in any case we should be staying more current anyway.
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds good.  
20:30 <@quantumsummers> amending the previous years returns is required at this point, given where we are
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> any more on CPA ?
20:30 <@quantumsummers> nope
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> 501(c)(3) registration status
20:31 <@quantumsummers> same
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Are we sill going for this ?
20:31 <@quantumsummers> waiting on tax stuff
20:31 <@rich0> Makes sense - might as well ask AFTER our house is in order.
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:31 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: that was the plan, however the sflc did bring up the possibility of doing something related to a public benefit corp
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, except we missed the 18 month deadline by a long way
20:31 <@quantumsummers> which could be really interesting
20:32 <@quantumsummers> the deadline is waaaaaaaaaaay past before this board was even rolling
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> yeah
20:32 <@quantumsummers> nothing anyone here could do
20:32 <@quantumsummers> so, that is that. we move forward regardless
20:32 <@quantumsummers> that said, the b-corp does present some interesting potentials
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> do we need to look at that individually before our Sept meeting ?
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> or do we ask the CPA for advice ?
20:33 <@quantumsummers> I think that will be worthwile
20:34 <@quantumsummers> CPA considers b-corp a good potential
20:34 <@rich0> Can we get a little info on what they're proposing - from what I've read not all states support those, including missouri
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> ok - agenda item For Sept
20:34 <@rich0> Some have overhead as well.
20:34 <@quantumsummers> rich0: that is correct
20:34 <@robbat2> afk for a few mins
20:34 <@rich0> If we have a little more specifics for pre-reading that might be helpful.
20:34 <@quantumsummers> however, we do not have to register in MO
20:34 <@quantumsummers> team: google b-corp
20:34 <@quantumsummers> there are at last 2 sites with very good info
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> lets have the discussion after we have done the reading ... in Sept
20:35 <@quantumsummers> ok. I will have more info regarding that at that time also
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, Your turn ... Foundation Activity Tracker Update
20:35 <@quantumsummers> it would alter our "business" model 
20:35  * quantumsummers is done\\
20:35 <@rich0> Not too much to report there.  The tracker is up-to-date, and I have both trademarks on there now.
20:36 <@rich0> Next big items all pertain to the AGM
20:36 <@_robbat2|irssi> (back on here)
20:36 <@rich0> Two reports, and the AG report for Missouri in Aug
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, can we keep track of when individual trustees are up for election there please.   I messed up and had robbat2 retining this year
20:37 <@_robbat2|irssi> +1
20:37 <@rich0> That isn't a bad idea.  I'll capture that.
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
20:37 <@dabbott> rich0: we could have one chapter just for that
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> should we keep trustee history there too ?
20:37 <@quantumsummers> also filing for NM
20:37 <@rich0> Maybe add it to: http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/secretary/activities/trustee-election.xml
20:38 <@rich0> NM is in November
20:38 <@quantumsummers> due
20:38 <@rich0> As well as IRS
20:38 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:38 <@rich0> Lots coming up over the next few months so be sure to check.
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> that was why we moved the AGM to Aug, so we had time to compile reports and take a vote on them
20:38 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, well reminded
20:39 <@rich0> That's it here unless any other suggestions.  I'll add more detail to the election page.  
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Agendat Item 4 Bugs
20:41 <@rich0> Any action for 420299?
20:41 <@rich0> It was never approved, but it sounds like it is done?
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> Is it closed ?
20:41 <@rich0> Unless it was out of infra budget.
20:41 <@rich0> Open
20:41 <@rich0> https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=420299
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, its new equipment, so it should not be out of the infra budget.  I reall it being discussed on the alias
20:42 <@rich0> Is any approval needed to reimburse.  If all is well no need to discuss, just didn't want to hold up payment.
20:42 <@quantumsummers> what is that one?
20:42 <@robbat2> that's the raid cards
20:42 <@rich0> Raid cards
20:42 <@quantumsummers> hmm, those were purchased I believe.
20:42 <@quantumsummers> and installed
20:42 <@robbat2> and installed, and the systems almost ready for use
20:43 <@quantumsummers> I'll post the receipt
20:43 <@quantumsummers> and close the bug
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> I recall that they were paid directly from paypal
20:43 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:43 <@rich0> Do we keep a balance in paypal?
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> after a brief disussion on the alias
20:43 <@rich0> (Don't want to derail agenda, but that is a bit of a risk, as paypay does not have the duties of a bank.)
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll let quantumsummers answer that one
20:44 <@quantumsummers> we do keep a balance
20:45 <@quantumsummers> not huge
20:45 <@quantumsummers> like <5000
20:45 <@rich0> No big deal
20:45 <@rich0> Just wanted to make sure it wasn't a substitute for a bank.
20:45 <@quantumsummers> on occasion I do transfer to ing, where most of our money is (and Cap1)
20:45 <@robbat2> (fyi, the power company is doing some emergency maint on the power poles outside, not expecting a blip as i've mostly got UPS, but just heads up)
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, paypay does not pay good interest on credit balances
20:45 <@quantumsummers> ing bought cap1
20:45 <@quantumsummers> interest is super low right now
20:46 <@quantumsummers> like practically nothing
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> its the same the world over :(
20:46 <@rich0> Biggest issue is that paypal siezes and freezes funds on a whim.
20:46 <@quantumsummers> yep, sad deal
20:46 <@quantumsummers> rich0: we are in good standing
20:46 <@rich0> Sorry to derail.
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, np  back to bugs 
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 373241 	
20:47 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/373241 "Fund the building of 3 MIPS build systems"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; mattst88:trustees
20:47 <@rich0> Seems pretty idle to me.
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> Is that closed?  Matt has his mips boxes I think
20:47 <@quantumsummers> I think that bug can be closed
20:47 <@quantumsummers> however, he is not working on them now
20:47 <@rich0> Agree, close and allow to re-open if it is needed in future.
20:47 <@quantumsummers> for whatever reason
20:47 <@quantumsummers> rich0:+1
20:47 <@dabbott> +1
20:48 <@rich0> I can close if we want.
20:48 <@quantumsummers> fine by me
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> he will get the bugs email if we close the bug, so it won't be a surprise
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> Close with a option to reopen later 
20:48 <@rich0> Done
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> 418203
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> Google want to pay us twice for the same thing
20:49 <@dabbott> Google Summer of Code Invoices - 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 (need 2011)
20:49 <@quantumsummers> they were disuaded
20:50 <@quantumsummers> still need that last invoice
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> can the bug be closed ?
20:50 <@quantumsummers> no
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> thats a no then
20:50 <@quantumsummers> please leave it open
20:50 <@rich0> seems like they deserve a spot on the sponsor page as well.  :)
20:50 <@quantumsummers> why?
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> I don'r see any more bugs to discuss.   Shoul we be on the git/svn bug now ?
20:51 <@dabbott> 2 spots :)
20:51 <@quantumsummers> its not a donation
20:51 <@robbat2> the ganeti boxes
20:51 <@quantumsummers> ah, yes those
20:51 <@quantumsummers> lets ask antarus if he wants us to do it
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> ask them first.  Some donors like to be anon
20:51 <@quantumsummers> he+goog
20:52 <@quantumsummers> we need to discuss tampakrap's request. I thought there was a bug about this
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 6  Membership Applications
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap, thought the meeting was next weekend
20:53 <@robbat2> ago was asking about membership last night too
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> I've not seen an email from ago
20:54 <@quantumsummers> Motion: approve Jory?
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Seconded
20:54 <@rich0> aye
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote
20:54 <@quantumsummers> aye
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
20:54 <@dabbott> yes
20:55 <@robbat2> aye
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> ago, ping
20:55 <@quantumsummers> the aye's have it
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll write the email
20:55 <@quantumsummers> thanks Roy
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> ago, isn't here to ask ... we whould wait for an email
20:55 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Cleanup
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 19th Aug 2012 19:00 UTC   Thats the AGM.  Normal monthly business is suspends
20:56 <@dabbott> fine by me
20:56 <@quantumsummers> wtf
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> works for me
20:56 <@quantumsummers> oops
20:56 <@quantumsummers> wfm**
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
20:56 <@quantumsummers> ;o
20:56 <@robbat2> there is a chance I might be travelling for work then
20:57 <@rich0> wfm
20:57 <@robbat2> possibility of internet unknown
20:57 <@robbat2> because i'll be in crazy nowhere BC
20:57 <@quantumsummers> ooo, fun
20:57 <@robbat2> (look up stewart, BC)
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, you are not an officer, so you don't have to present a report.  We will try to goahead without you
20:58 <@quantumsummers> looks lovely
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, sounds like the NW cost of Scotland
20:58 <@quantumsummers> do some fishing
20:59 <@quantumsummers> send me a salmon
20:59 <@robbat2> work trip, need to hit 7 towns in that region in a couple of days
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> As its the only meeting we are legally required to have and to advise members of, I would like to try for Aug 19th
20:59 <@quantumsummers> damn man
20:59 <@quantumsummers> lets do it then, we can get the reports approved ahead of the meeting
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, that does not sound like fun
20:59 <@robbat2> +1 on reports ahead of meeting
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> sounds good to me
21:00 <@dabbott> +1
21:00 <@quantumsummers> ready for AOB?
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log Who will post the log? Minutes? ... we should really drop Minutes from the agenda
21:00 <@quantumsummers> AOB!!
21:00 <@dabbott> i will
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Who will update the motions page? 
21:00 <@dabbott> me also :)
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Who will send emails? me
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> AOB  (I missedthat again)
21:01 <@quantumsummers> BYOB to the AOB
21:01 <@quantumsummers> tampakrap's request
21:01 <@quantumsummers> I will take this
21:01 <+tampakrap> I'm here
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap, please outline your request
21:02 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: i will put together a Secretary's Report for review on mail alias 
21:02 <@quantumsummers> tampakrap: per conversation with CPA, the request cannot be fulfilled due to a number of reasons, the main ones being overcomplication of our books and issues dealing with earmarked donations
21:02 <@quantumsummers> sorry man
21:02 <+tampakrap> no problem, thanks for looking at it
21:03 <@quantumsummers> tampakrap: you may consider talking to gentoo e.v., as they may be in a better position to assist in the EU
21:03 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: its all in the mail from Theo
21:03 <@rich0> Smaller targeted expenditures might be possible.
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Ah yes.
21:04 <@quantumsummers> I think we would be delighted to assist with conf materials like dvds, etc
21:04 <@quantumsummers> however please file a proper request for that material
21:04 <+tampakrap> I'll talk to the eV first if they have enough material, if not I'll print something here and bug you again
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap, that works
21:05 <+tampakrap> good, thank you guys
21:05 <@quantumsummers> reminds me, I talked with a local tshirt shop, they are interested in potentially producing some "special edition" shirts for a good price
21:05 <@dabbott> tampakrap: you may want a banner for the booth
21:05 <@quantumsummers> might be worth getting a firm quote
21:05 <+tampakrap> the eV has one, we're discussing if they can bring it here
21:05 <@quantumsummers> cool
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Its not worth shipping stuff around the world.  Customs can be a pain
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap, it can be shipped
21:06 <@quantumsummers> we should likely have a banner on all major gentoo-using continents for this sort of thing
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I think we do ... at least one
21:06 <@rich0> At least one in the US and one in the EU - no customs that way
21:07 <@robbat2> i think there are two in the US
21:07 <@rich0> Asia gets messier, but if there is enough demand...
21:07 <@quantumsummers> we have one in Cali and one on the east coast I believe
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, yep
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more Other Business ?
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> None her
21:07 <@quantumsummers> not from me
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> +e
21:08 <@robbat2> none from me
21:08 <@dabbott> im good
21:08 <@rich0> nope
21:08 <@quantumsummers> good luck in the election gentlemen!
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ...
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks quantumsummers 
21:09  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the July meeting
