(12/14/2008 12:45:27 PM) ***NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order - roll call
(12/14/2008 12:45:33 PM) tsunam_: here
(12/14/2008 12:45:34 PM) fmccor: Here
(12/14/2008 12:45:38 PM) dmwaters: here
(12/14/2008 12:46:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thats us quorate.  We can skip the
Intros .. on to item 2
(12/14/2008 12:46:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: 2. Actions From the Last Meeting
(12/14/2008 12:46:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: Gentoo Foundation Banking - tsunam
(12/14/2008 12:46:43 PM) tsunam_: no update unfortunately. I did send one check
off last week for a replacement hard drive
(12/14/2008 12:46:50 PM) tsunam_: I need to close the bug though
(12/14/2008 12:47:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok.  What about our EIN/IRS/Address
update ?
(12/14/2008 12:47:16 PM) tsunam_: I need to fix some errors in the banking pages
for the last quarter as well
(12/14/2008 12:47:25 PM) tsunam_: I need to get the EIN sent to myself as the
fed should have it
(12/14/2008 12:47:33 PM) tsunam_: then we can get the bank account all resolved
(12/14/2008 12:47:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: OK.  This year ?
(12/14/2008 12:48:08 PM) tsunam_: certainly will try
(12/14/2008 12:48:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: Stretch target 31 Dec.  Backstop DoNM
(12/14/2008 12:48:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: Certified Public Accountant -
quantumsummers - we will come back to this
(12/14/2008 12:49:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: Fix name and address on IPR/trademark
documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees
(12/14/2008 12:49:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, ^^
(12/14/2008 12:49:44 PM) fmccor: We gave the lawyer a go, she is doing that and
will bill us when complete.
(12/14/2008 12:49:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks
(12/14/2008 12:50:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: Send friendly cease and desist emails to
copyright infringers spotted on cafepress - quantumsummers  we need tocome back
to that
(12/14/2008 12:50:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: 3 Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees
(12/14/2008 12:50:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: 217511 The Gentoo Store is Out of Date -
musikc
(12/14/2008 12:51:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: musikc isn't here - the store was updated
the bug is open until long term care is addressed
(12/14/2008 12:51:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: anyone know anything else ?
(12/14/2008 12:51:58 PM) tsunam_: nope
(12/14/2008 12:52:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: 56711 Retire: Renat Lumpau (rl03)
(12/14/2008 12:52:11 PM) fmccor: No
(12/14/2008 12:52:41 PM) fmccor: Isn't that one resolved?  (56711)
(12/14/2008 12:52:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: Renat has set his devaway, which has
satisfied the undertakers meanwhile
(12/14/2008 12:53:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, I guess thats a yes
(12/14/2008 12:53:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: 245227 budget limit for infra repairs
(12/14/2008 12:53:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: Someone was going to ask infra for an
estimate.
(12/14/2008 12:54:19 PM) dmwaters: i can't remember who that was
(12/14/2008 12:54:20 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers I think
(12/14/2008 12:54:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: I known that robbat2 was working on
something like that
(12/14/2008 12:55:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, is going to be busy when
he shows up at 19:00 UTC
(12/14/2008 12:55:33 PM) tsunam_: it is the holiday season so please consider
that 
(12/14/2008 12:55:56 PM) tsunam_: thinks will take longer to do unfortunately
(12/14/2008 12:55:59 PM) fmccor: This is probably the last official Gentoo
action for a month. :)
(12/14/2008 12:56:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, OK, I didn't realise that.  
(12/14/2008 12:56:25 PM) tsunam_: :P
(12/14/2008 12:56:49 PM) fmccor: World's about to shut down for Saturnalia
(12/14/2008 12:56:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its not holiday seaon in the UK until the
schools finish
(12/14/2008 12:57:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: 4 Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June
2008
(12/14/2008 12:57:18 PM) tsunam_: well from thanksgiving until january people
take vacations etc...
(12/14/2008 12:57:39 PM) tsunam_: I've updated through 2007. But need to fix the
4th quarter to begin the 2008
(12/14/2008 12:57:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, Thanks for the education :)
(12/14/2008 12:58:11 PM) tsunam_: 2008 year, not fiscal 
(12/14/2008 12:58:14 PM) tsunam_: should clarify
(12/14/2008 12:58:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, You have it half done then
(12/14/2008 12:58:26 PM) tsunam_: correct
(12/14/2008 12:58:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: progress :)
(12/14/2008 12:59:06 PM) NeddySeagoon: 5. Foundation Knowledge Management Needs 
was another one for quantumsummers 
(12/14/2008 12:59:38 PM) ***quantumsummers greets the trustees, and is caught up
(12/14/2008 12:59:55 PM) quantumsummers: So regarding #5
(12/14/2008 12:59:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: 6. Actions From Previous Meetings on hold
for one or more actions above   I don't think there is any change, do I need to
paste them from the agenda
(12/14/2008 01:00:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, there was a unamous vote
to start early
(12/14/2008 01:00:57 PM) quantumsummers: indeed, I'm happy to see everyone is
here :) 
(12/14/2008 01:01:00 PM) quantumsummers: I have a membership app I can put up
anytime
(12/14/2008 01:01:10 PM) NeddySeagoon:  unamous == all the trustees agreed
(12/14/2008 01:01:25 PM) tsunam_: quantumsummers: oh?
(12/14/2008 01:01:29 PM) quantumsummers: also pretty much finished with the doc
repo
(12/14/2008 01:01:43 PM) quantumsummers: unamous is code for everyone :D
(12/14/2008 01:02:03 PM) fmccor: It's the British spelling
(12/14/2008 01:02:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: hehe
(12/14/2008 01:02:21 PM) quantumsummers: _nice_
(12/14/2008 01:02:25 PM) quantumsummers: :)
(12/14/2008 01:02:51 PM) quantumsummers: also wrote a little wiki with rev
control on it if we wanted to doc internal prodecures
(12/14/2008 01:02:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: shall we get your stuff at the end
quantumsummers ?  You missed a few other things too
(12/14/2008 01:03:19 PM) quantumsummers: also working on beacon integration
(12/14/2008 01:03:34 PM) quantumsummers: hmm, up to you guys
(12/14/2008 01:03:53 PM) quantumsummers: I can, no prob
(12/14/2008 01:03:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: We will come back to your stuff
(12/14/2008 01:04:01 PM) quantumsummers: re: NeddySeagoon ^^
(12/14/2008 01:04:03 PM) quantumsummers: ok
(12/14/2008 01:04:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: 6. Actions From Previous Meetings on hold
for one or more actions above   I don't think there is any change, do I need to
paste them from the agenda
(12/14/2008 01:04:28 PM) fmccor: No.  No changes.
(12/14/2008 01:04:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, tsunam_ ?
(12/14/2008 01:04:46 PM) dmwaters: nope
(12/14/2008 01:05:04 PM) tsunam_: nope no changes
(12/14/2008 01:05:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, ?
(12/14/2008 01:05:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks
(12/14/2008 01:05:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: 7. Membership Applications   can we deal
will developers as a block ?
(12/14/2008 01:05:54 PM) NeddySeagoon:     *
(12/14/2008 01:05:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: # Membership Applications -
(12/14/2008 01:06:12 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * mpagano
(12/14/2008 01:06:12 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * ali_bush
(12/14/2008 01:06:12 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * rich0
(12/14/2008 01:06:12 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * ulm
(12/14/2008 01:06:12 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * Ford_Prefect
(12/14/2008 01:06:12 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * quantumsummers
(12/14/2008 01:06:14 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * bluebird
(12/14/2008 01:06:16 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * musikc
(12/14/2008 01:06:30 PM) fmccor: Yes to all for me.
(12/14/2008 01:06:36 PM) dmwaters: yes to all
(12/14/2008 01:06:48 PM) quantumsummers: recorded
(12/14/2008 01:06:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes to all from me
(12/14/2008 01:07:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, ?
(12/14/2008 01:07:17 PM) tsunam_: for all those agreed
(12/14/2008 01:07:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thanks
(12/14/2008 01:07:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: Community Members - One at a time
(12/14/2008 01:07:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Comprookie2000  
(12/14/2008 01:08:14 PM) fmccor: This would be for the publicity?
(12/14/2008 01:08:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes
(12/14/2008 01:08:34 PM) fmccor: He plans to keep doing it?
(12/14/2008 01:09:17 PM) fmccor: If so, I think that is a service to the
community and would support him.
(12/14/2008 01:09:26 PM) ***quantumsummers wonders about an official g.o podcast
(12/14/2008 01:09:33 PM) quantumsummers: :P
(12/14/2008 01:10:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, he shows no signs of giving up. 
I was his first soon after we took office.  drobbins and bonsaikitten are the
most recent this month
(12/14/2008 01:10:37 PM) tsunam_: k
(12/14/2008 01:10:44 PM) ***quantumsummers thinks NeddySeagoon's accent might be
good
(12/14/2008 01:11:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, Podcast 18 is me
(12/14/2008 01:11:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, ?
(12/14/2008 01:11:27 PM) quantumsummers: I listened to it :) good stuff
(12/14/2008 01:11:39 PM) dmwaters: can someone fill me in as to what he does?
(12/14/2008 01:11:51 PM) quantumsummers: nice gentoo-centric podcast
(12/14/2008 01:11:51 PM) ***dmwaters doesn't remember this one
(12/14/2008 01:12:00 PM) tsunam_: k
(12/14/2008 01:12:15 PM) quantumsummers: not deeply technical, but nice
(12/14/2008 01:12:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: he makes podcasts of interviews (voice)
with Gentoo contributors
(12/14/2008 01:12:45 PM) dmwaters: i'll say yes then
(12/14/2008 01:12:55 PM) tsunam_: I have no problem with a yes
(12/14/2008 01:13:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: He has done me, vapier, drobbins,
bonsaikitten and others. 
(12/14/2008 01:13:11 PM) ***quantumsummers :)
(12/14/2008 01:13:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its good publicity
(12/14/2008 01:13:26 PM) quantumsummers: yes
(12/14/2008 01:13:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm a yes too
fmccor fmccor|work 
(12/14/2008 01:13:33 PM) quantumsummers: fmccor?
(12/14/2008 01:13:45 PM) fmccor: Oh, I thought I said yes.  Yes.
(12/14/2008 01:13:55 PM) quantumsummers: unanimous
(12/14/2008 01:14:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: Next up WEIRDEDOUT
(12/14/2008 01:14:14 PM) fmccor: Who is that?
(12/14/2008 01:14:31 PM) tsunam_: NeddySeagoon: I think you should just explain
who they are when you announce
(12/14/2008 01:14:46 PM) quantumsummers: he's is involved in the podcast
(12/14/2008 01:14:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: hes been in a podcast or two but other
than that I only know hhis application
(12/14/2008 01:14:54 PM) tsunam_: the same one?
(12/14/2008 01:15:22 PM) quantumsummers: yes
(12/14/2008 01:15:26 PM) tsunam_: k
(12/14/2008 01:15:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: Nope ... let me reread his application 
(12/14/2008 01:16:37 PM) tsunam_: forum helper from what he said, system admin
interview for linux crazy
(12/14/2008 01:16:52 PM) tsunam_: helps out in times on the #gentoo-au channel
(12/14/2008 01:18:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: he has 22 posts on forums.gentoo.org
(12/14/2008 01:18:14 PM) tsunam_: =/
(12/14/2008 01:18:17 PM) tsunam_: that's not many
(12/14/2008 01:18:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm never in -au
(12/14/2008 01:18:29 PM) tsunam_: nor am I
(12/14/2008 01:18:42 PM) dmwaters: doesn't sound real active to me
(12/14/2008 01:18:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: Should we defer this one ?
(12/14/2008 01:19:01 PM) fmccor: Yes, I'd like him to come to the next meeting
and talk to us.
(12/14/2008 01:19:10 PM) tsunam_: i would concur
(12/14/2008 01:19:12 PM) dmwaters: i agree with ferris
(12/14/2008 01:19:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: OK - defeered 
(12/14/2008 01:19:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: (sp) :(
(12/14/2008 01:19:50 PM) tsunam_: oh well
(12/14/2008 01:20:14 PM) NeddySeagoon: Next up Philantrop 
(12/14/2008 01:20:31 PM) fmccor: He is here for questions, or was.
(12/14/2008 01:21:09 PM) fmccor: My position is known.  Yes
(12/14/2008 01:21:21 PM) tsunam_: My position is known as well..I will explain
though
(12/14/2008 01:21:25 PM) dmwaters: my vote is yes also.
(12/14/2008 01:21:53 PM) tsunam_: I still maintain that anyone who was a member
of Gentoo who was removed under not ideal circumstances should not be a member
of the foundation, and if they were, that they should be removed from that as
well
(12/14/2008 01:21:58 PM) tsunam_: so my vote is no
(12/14/2008 01:22:35 PM) tsunam_: but I will likely be overruled by majority
vote so
(12/14/2008 01:22:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, nobody should be punished for
the same thing twice.
(12/14/2008 01:22:51 PM) tsunam_: Its not punishing a second time
(12/14/2008 01:22:53 PM) tsunam_: in my opinion
(12/14/2008 01:23:11 PM) tsunam_: the intial setup for the foundation was that
you had to be a developer to become one
(12/14/2008 01:23:16 PM) tsunam_: we've opened that up now
(12/14/2008 01:23:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: Philantrop, continues to work for the
aims of the Foundation
(12/14/2008 01:23:36 PM) fmccor: Still, it looks to me that right now he is
supporting Gentoo pretty actively.
(12/14/2008 01:23:43 PM) tsunam_: he continues to work on improving a
alternative package manager that is well liked I agree with that
(12/14/2008 01:24:24 PM) dmwaters: well, way i see it is this, he's got a lot to
offer gentoo, so why not give him the chance. the  foundation has more to think
about then the developer community  at worst if there is a problem we can
remove his membership.
(12/14/2008 01:24:29 PM) tsunam_: Yes its one of the aims of the foundation
(12/14/2008 01:24:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: and the things that were shared on the
alias ?
(12/14/2008 01:24:57 PM) tsunam_: my opinion will not change on this one guys
(12/14/2008 01:25:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'll stop trying then
(12/14/2008 01:25:30 PM) tsunam_: I've also voiced there are others who i've
considered friends who should be removed under the same policy I mentioned. Its
a broad stroke that doesn't just affect a single person
(12/14/2008 01:25:55 PM) tsunam_: so far I see 2 for and 1 against
(12/14/2008 01:26:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: This makes life difficult for me as I had
planned to abstain. I will declare my interest
(12/14/2008 01:27:17 PM) tsunam_: NeddySeagoon: when have I ever made your life
easy
(12/14/2008 01:27:40 PM) fmccor: An abstain would make it I *think*  2.5 - 1.5,
but I am not sure.
(12/14/2008 01:27:47 PM) NeddySeagoon: I was one of several that complained to
council about Philantrop (I know of at least one other)
(12/14/2008 01:28:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: I cannot honestly say that that would not
be colouring my vote.  I abstain
(12/14/2008 01:29:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: but I recognise that Philantrop satisfies
the membership requirements
(12/14/2008 01:30:14 PM) tsunam_: so we've recieved a yes from deedra, fmccor.
No from tsunam. Abstain from NeddySeagoon 
(12/14/2008 01:30:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, correct
(12/14/2008 01:30:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have no idea where that leaves
Philantrops' membership
(12/14/2008 01:31:07 PM) tsunam_: its still a majority for yes
(12/14/2008 01:31:19 PM) fmccor: Well, an abstain is not a no, so it can't count
as one.
(12/14/2008 01:31:32 PM) fmccor: I think it counts as .5/.5 split
(12/14/2008 01:31:40 PM) tsunam_: either way see above
(12/14/2008 01:31:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Well, that makes the arithmetic easy
(12/14/2008 01:31:56 PM) tsunam_: lol
(12/14/2008 01:32:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: Philantrop, is a foundation member
(12/14/2008 01:32:19 PM) quantumsummers: approved.
(12/14/2008 01:32:24 PM) Philantrop: Thanks, guys!
(12/14/2008 01:32:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: only just :)
(12/14/2008 01:32:59 PM) tsunam_: next?
(12/14/2008 01:33:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: Lets go back to the things quantumsummers
missed
(12/14/2008 01:33:19 PM) fmccor: So we've approved everyone but one, and we
don't have enough information there.
(12/14/2008 01:33:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: 2 Certified Public Accountant -
quantumsummers
(12/14/2008 01:33:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yes
(12/14/2008 01:33:46 PM) quantumsummers: I have 2 CPAs available
(12/14/2008 01:34:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, pro bono ?
(12/14/2008 01:34:41 PM) quantumsummers: only one for free at this time, still
working on a deal with the other
(12/14/2008 01:35:03 PM) quantumsummers: 50/50 chance there
(12/14/2008 01:35:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: do you have all the finance data you need
from tsunam_ ?
(12/14/2008 01:35:44 PM) quantumsummers: no, I basically need bank & paypal, etc
data
(12/14/2008 01:35:53 PM) quantumsummers: for this year
(12/14/2008 01:36:03 PM) tsunam_: k
(12/14/2008 01:36:04 PM) quantumsummers: & past, which is available
(12/14/2008 01:36:20 PM) tsunam_: will try and get current paypal done
(12/14/2008 01:36:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, thanks
(12/14/2008 01:36:40 PM) quantumsummers: they are going to want to see any
available data from the past few years
(12/14/2008 01:37:05 PM) quantumsummers: the goal here is to have a complete
picture
(12/14/2008 01:37:10 PM) tsunam_: that's quite honestly paypal only
(12/14/2008 01:37:17 PM) quantumsummers: perfect
(12/14/2008 01:37:33 PM) quantumsummers: a spreadsheet or csv will be ideal
(12/14/2008 01:37:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, tsunam_ you two can sort
this out off line ?
(12/14/2008 01:37:54 PM) quantumsummers: tsunam_: email?
(12/14/2008 01:38:13 PM) ***NeddySeagoon bets they mean Excell
(12/14/2008 01:38:19 PM) quantumsummers: NO
(12/14/2008 01:38:26 PM) tsunam_: sure
(12/14/2008 01:38:26 PM) fmccor: :)
(12/14/2008 01:38:27 PM) quantumsummers: :)
(12/14/2008 01:38:34 PM) quantumsummers: just a csv is fine
(12/14/2008 01:38:43 PM) quantumsummers: whatever is the easiest, really
(12/14/2008 01:38:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: Nice to be wrong on that one
(12/14/2008 01:38:47 PM) tsunam_: will work out the details with quantumsummers 
(12/14/2008 01:38:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok
(12/14/2008 01:38:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: Moving on 
(12/14/2008 01:38:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: Send friendly cease and desist emails to
copyright infringers spotted on cafepress - quantumsummers
fmccor fmccor|work 
(12/14/2008 01:40:25 PM) ***quantumsummers runs away as he has not accomplished
the task. fmccor would you happen to have some template to work from. my
legalese isn't so great & I am trying to be too diplomatic perhaps
(12/14/2008 01:40:48 PM) quantumsummers: I do have a long list of "offenders"
(12/14/2008 01:40:59 PM) ***quantumsummers is sorry
(12/14/2008 01:41:15 PM) quantumsummers: work has been a bit crazy lately
(12/14/2008 01:41:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, we don't want to come
over all heavy handed and legal.  Just a simple here are our trademarks, please
don't do it any more
(12/14/2008 01:41:36 PM) tsunam_: no worries quantumsummers, its good work is
crazy
(12/14/2008 01:41:41 PM) ***quantumsummers is ready for his lashes
(12/14/2008 01:41:50 PM) quantumsummers: :)
(12/14/2008 01:42:06 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, I don't have a template, but
like what NeddySeagoon said works just fine.
(12/14/2008 01:42:18 PM) quantumsummers: ok
(12/14/2008 01:42:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, the emphasis is on the
friendly
(12/14/2008 01:42:30 PM) quantumsummers: I understand
(12/14/2008 01:42:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, when can you do it by ?
(12/14/2008 01:43:07 PM) fmccor: Although it is "please don't do it without
permission."  For all I know, we'd support them if they would ask.
(12/14/2008 01:43:25 PM) quantumsummers: diplomacy is a good thing, I _will_
write it after the meeting & send it to you for final approval.  Note, it will
likely be short.
(12/14/2008 01:43:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, Competing against us in the USA ?
(12/14/2008 01:43:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: Short is good
(12/14/2008 01:44:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: 5. Foundation Knowledge Management Needs 
quantumsummers did you finish with this ?
(12/14/2008 01:44:23 PM) fmccor: Selling things?  I'd balance the publicity and
good will with the income, and probably grant permission.
(12/14/2008 01:44:49 PM) quantumsummers: please ask permission so we can keep
track of who's using our IP
(12/14/2008 01:45:04 PM) quantumsummers: as we need to track these things
(12/14/2008 01:45:17 PM) quantumsummers: (donations welcome :) )
(12/14/2008 01:45:20 PM) fmccor: Yes, and so that we don't lose it.  We have to
write the letter at least.
(12/14/2008 01:45:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, stop while you negiotiate
with us
(12/14/2008 01:45:23 PM) quantumsummers: something like that^^
(12/14/2008 01:45:54 PM) quantumsummers: perfect
(12/14/2008 01:46:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: 5. Foundation Knowledge Management Needs 
quantumsummers did you finish with this ?
(12/14/2008 01:46:46 PM) quantumsummers: ok, regarding knowledge management,
yes, do you guys want me to put this up somewhere private?
(12/14/2008 01:47:07 PM) quantumsummers: ssl that is
(12/14/2008 01:47:13 PM) quantumsummers: login only
(12/14/2008 01:47:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: If you have a writeup, put it on the
trustees@ alias
(12/14/2008 01:47:30 PM) quantumsummers: no, I meant the apps
(12/14/2008 01:47:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, Yes.  Much of the content
cannot be public
(12/14/2008 01:48:09 PM) quantumsummers: like the membership app, I can put that
up on monday or tues
(12/14/2008 01:48:19 PM) quantumsummers: just for us
(12/14/2008 01:48:29 PM) quantumsummers: __not __ public
(12/14/2008 01:48:50 PM) quantumsummers: we can make any data public you want
(12/14/2008 01:48:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok - then we can have a play with it. 
Have you spoken with infra ?
(12/14/2008 01:49:32 PM) NeddySeagoon: It would be good if they host it
(12/14/2008 01:49:32 PM) quantumsummers: I haven't spoken with infra lately
about this, there was some reluctance to run a django stack
(12/14/2008 01:50:08 PM) quantumsummers: worse case, I can stick it on an IP,
with no dns
(12/14/2008 01:50:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: Talk to them before you put it up.  
(12/14/2008 01:50:13 PM) quantumsummers: ok
(12/14/2008 01:50:15 PM) quantumsummers: :)
(12/14/2008 01:50:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: For continuity, it needs to be on
gentoo -infra
(12/14/2008 01:50:45 PM) quantumsummers: technically its running now, but on a
private lan
(12/14/2008 01:50:56 PM) quantumsummers: oh, I agree completely
(12/14/2008 01:51:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, any more on your bits ?
(12/14/2008 01:51:20 PM) quantumsummers: its just not "production" tested
(12/14/2008 01:51:34 PM) quantumsummers: not really NeddySeagoon
(12/14/2008 01:51:35 PM) tsunam_: that is to be expected
(12/14/2008 01:51:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: 8. # Any other business
(12/14/2008 01:52:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have one item
(12/14/2008 01:52:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: ... two items
(12/14/2008 01:52:20 PM) fmccor: Yes, we should not forget to autovoice the new
members.
(12/14/2008 01:52:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yep
(12/14/2008 01:53:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: DoNM  the first Sunday after the 2nd
Thursday of the month is 11 Jan 2009  at 19:00
(12/14/2008 01:53:25 PM) tsunam_: k
(12/14/2008 01:53:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: Is that ok ?
(12/14/2008 01:53:29 PM) tsunam_: works for me
(12/14/2008 01:53:32 PM) quantumsummers: we left dang & jef_fro off the list of
devs applying for membership
(12/14/2008 01:53:43 PM) fmccor: Is that after the e.V. meeting?
(12/14/2008 01:53:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, they are already members
(12/14/2008 01:53:54 PM) quantumsummers: oops
(12/14/2008 01:53:58 PM) quantumsummers: :D
(12/14/2008 01:54:02 PM) fmccor: I think it is on the 9th, but not sure.
(12/14/2008 01:54:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, its our tradidional sunday after
the Council meeting
(12/14/2008 01:55:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: Lets make it 11th for now.  We can find
out about the e.V. meeting and move ours if we need to
(12/14/2008 01:56:00 PM) fmccor: Just noting that our next meeting should be
after theirs.
(12/14/2008 01:56:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: The other item I have is setting of a
recording date.  I propose the Date of our Next meeting
(12/14/2008 01:56:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yep that would be good but we
don't know when that is just now
(12/14/2008 01:57:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: The recording date needs a vote.  
(12/14/2008 01:57:28 PM) tsunam_: the 11 is fine for me. Lets assume that for
now
(12/14/2008 01:57:33 PM) fmccor: Yes
(12/14/2008 01:57:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: Members admitted after that date do not
get to stand or vote in the March 2009 election
(12/14/2008 01:57:45 PM) dmwaters: yes
(12/14/2008 01:57:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes from me too
(12/14/2008 01:58:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, the recording date ?
(12/14/2008 01:58:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its like buying shares ex-dividend :)
(12/14/2008 01:58:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: stock*
(12/14/2008 01:58:57 PM) tsunam_: lol
(12/14/2008 01:59:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, are you good with the date ?
(12/14/2008 01:59:26 PM) tsunam_: yep
(12/14/2008 01:59:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks
(12/14/2008 01:59:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, Any other business ?
(12/14/2008 01:59:50 PM) dmwaters: NeddySeagoon: nope
(12/14/2008 02:00:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, anything ?
(12/14/2008 02:00:08 PM) fmccor: Just the autovoice
(12/14/2008 02:00:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok
(12/14/2008 02:00:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, anything else ?
(12/14/2008 02:00:35 PM) tsunam_: nope
(12/14/2008 02:00:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: 9. Open floor
(12/14/2008 02:00:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Anyone at all for any more
(12/14/2008 02:01:42 PM) quantumsummers: that was fast :)
(12/14/2008 02:01:58 PM) dmwaters: and, i need to go
(12/14/2008 02:02:00 PM) fmccor: As it should ne. :)
(12/14/2008 02:02:03 PM) fmccor: ^ne^be
(12/14/2008 02:02:06 PM) ***NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
(12/14/2008 02:02:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thanks everyone