20:00  * NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call
20:00 <@fmccor> I wasn't saying to join.  I was mentioning its charactistics.
20:00 <@fmccor> Here.
20:00 <@tsunam> here in spirit only :-P
20:00 <@fmccor> A ghost?
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> tgall_foo, wltjr   ?
20:00 <@tsunam> yep its a dead day for me :_P
20:01 <@fmccor> I think wltjr said he was time sharing with yard work.
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, yeah - we have a quorum, so we can start ... lets give tgall_foo a few minutes
20:03  * wltjr is here in a uncomfortable presence
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> well, done ... ok, lets start
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> 1. Introductions   does anyone not know us by now ?
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> moving swiftly on
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> 2. Actions From the Last Meeting
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Foundation Bylaws Status - wltjr care to summarise please ?
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, ?
20:05 <@wltjr> I have nothing to say really, I agree with everything that was done at last meeting on the bylaws, but I was not present, kinda taking a back seat atm, because I am totally confused over Foundation purpose, membership, etc, but rest of the common stuff can be moved on I guess, which I think is where the last meeting left off, so no change
20:06 -!- ahf [i=ahf@exherbo/developer/ahf] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> The present trustees have looked over all the sections except 4 and 5
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Next action    * Gentoo Foundation Banking - tsunam
20:07 <@wltjr> then I guess that's where we are at, I will participate and comment, but not looking to lead the effort wrt to the bylaws, never did but sorta became that way I think
20:07 <@fmccor> I thought we said that for now we'd let Sec 4 reflect the status quo?
20:07 <@tsunam> short answer, no real progress has been made on a bank. I've been unable to get enough free time during banking hours to make the calls neccessary
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, yeah I was of the opion you were leading 
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, can anyone else help ?
20:08 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I don't mind per say, but didn't elect or ask for it, and I think many have opposition to me doing that, so would rather just be a part :)
20:08 <@wltjr> tsunam: I am happy to I was going to offer
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, ok, well sort the details under AOB later
20:08 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: that's worth considering
20:08 <@wltjr> that's partly why I took no role, officer wise, so I could help out or fill in where needed :)
20:08 <@tsunam> basically what they needed was the EIN and a bit of other information
20:09 <@tsunam> so really not much
20:09 <@wltjr> we have all that and more, just need funds and to decide which bank, but likely only a few like chase, citi, etc, big ones
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, can you brief wltjr ?
20:09 <@tsunam> wltjr: citi was the best one I saw overall
20:09 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: it would mostly be coordinating initial deposit
20:09 <@tsunam> wltjr: and most informative and helpful
20:09 <@wltjr> tsunam: ok I have no quams there, they have a HUGE presence here :)
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, It sounds like you are up to speed already
20:09 <@wltjr> tsunam: > 5k and growing
20:10 <@tsunam> wltjr: only catchpa we have is if the check from netbank is still good
20:10 <@tsunam> which I need to just call grant as he's not responded to emails about it
20:10 <@wltjr> tsunam: sure, or will need to somehow arrange an initial deposit/check something from PayPal just to prime the account
20:10 <@tsunam> wltjr: aye
20:10 <@tsunam> that's the other way
20:10 <@wltjr> tsunam: then worse case instead of a check, we can do a wire transfer, account to account
20:11 <@tsunam> wltjr: *nods*
20:11 <@wltjr> tsunam: and from there, PayPal can be tied into bank account, and so on, rest is you :)
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> if the cheque is still good, grant an pay it in to his local branch
20:11 <@tsunam> wltjr: yeah
20:11 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: sure lots of options there
20:11 <@tsunam> it's been ~1year plus...
20:11 <@wltjr> only thing we have to do is prime the initial account to open it, and that would be like ~$100 or so 
20:11 <@tsunam> not sure lifetime on checks
20:11 <@wltjr> depends if it's dated
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Its our end of FY on 30 June - will you have time for the book keeping for that ?
20:12 <@wltjr> if not dated, no expiration as long as funds are available
20:12 <@wltjr> so cash grandma's check today, not years from now, or you might mess the old gal up :)
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
20:12 <@fmccor> :)
20:12 <@tsunam> wltjr: recall netbank is cloed
20:13 <@tsunam> closed
20:13 <@tsunam> wltjr: the check should still be good with the new bank that took over the assets
20:13 <@wltjr> tsunam: sure but funds would likely be in some sort of trust or something, not sure there, but has to be some sort of rules, and availability
20:13 <@tsunam> but might need to get the check reissued
20:13 <@wltjr> if we lost the $ that would totally suck ass
20:13 <@tsunam> wltjr: its not gone
20:13 <@wltjr> but we can fight that battle another day, once we have a bank account
20:13 <@tsunam> wltjr: just in a different location
20:13 <@tsunam> *nods*
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, it won't be gone
20:13 <@wltjr> tsunam: we can have our bank help us there
20:13 <@tsunam> wltjr: aye
20:14 <@tsunam> anyways that's the status of the bank
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks tsunam 
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> 3. Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees ...
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> 117837 Funding request: wildcard SSL cert ... robbat2 seems to be having fun with CACert ... we can close this action
20:15 <@tsunam> the CACert has been approved and is in place
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> 177966 Clarify Foundation page on external entities ... what was this about ?
20:16 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: robbat2 is working that, I don't think we should close or mess with, but we are done there I believe
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks.  We just need to keep an eye on it if we can't reassign it
20:17 <@fmccor> 117837 was closed a month ago.
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> 217511 The Gentoo Store is Out of Date - this is a problem
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, thanks
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> A gentoo store in the USA is like an ash tray on a moderbike if you are in Europe
20:18 <@fmccor> Ha.
20:18 <@tsunam> simple solution would be to just remove all cd/dvd's from the store
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Thats been done on the web page
20:19  * wltjr still likes the idea of having a third party agreement for sale and distribution of release media paying roylaties back to foundation
20:19 <@fmccor> I'm not sure we've ever sold any.
20:19 <@tsunam> cd's/dvds?
20:19 <@tsunam> yes we have
20:19 <@fmccor> wltjr, sounds good to me.
20:19 <@wltjr> could do that with T-Shirts and more, and it could be done regionally
20:19 <@tsunam> not many each release
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> What about appointing a store management committee. ?  Coveing the USA and a few other countries ?
20:19 <@wltjr> sure there is $ loss of dollar coversion, but that's moot
20:20 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: to difficult, we just have some legal types draft up a policy and rules with % payback to foundation
20:20 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: that's an option and a good possibility of the community being able to help
20:20 <@wltjr> then if we need to, we sick pro bono council after them to enforce it or etc, but that shouldn't be much of an issue I think most would be pretty honest, it's not like they will be moving tons of product :)
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, my point is that the trustees won't fix it unaided
20:20 <@wltjr> and it could apply to more than just media
20:21 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: do it hands off
20:21 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: have a policy anyone can follow without asking
20:21 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: just have to make sure anyone selling is sending checks to foundation, or sick attorneys on them
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, that sounds good - as long as they know the policy exists
20:22 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: publish it on g.o
20:22 <@fmccor> We've already given approval to some developer in Russia to sell T shirts, I think.
20:22 <@wltjr> link to it from home page or etc
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, the proceeds won't pay for international attorneys
20:22 <@wltjr> fmccor: exactly
20:22 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I really don't see it coming to that much
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, you agree we need some help of some sort ?
20:23 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I don't see anyone selling Gentoo stuff to be making a ton of $ off it, and if they really want to be petty and not give back ~20% or some small amount to keep making what ever $ they are, then we can find other ways
20:23 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: not sure, I think the SFLC is international
20:23 <@fmccor> We're never going to get rich from the store(s); it's more a PR & good will thing, and you need the license to protect trademarks.
20:23 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: we can use them at any time
20:24 <@wltjr> we just need to establish a relationship, heck the company in CA that did the trademark might do that stuff, they seem pretty damn big and all into software and the like
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, if we have a policy for 'anyone' to follow, nobody will - how will we make the store(s) happen ?
20:24 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: we don't the community does :)
20:25 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: put another way, some might elect to sell and distribute our stuff anyway, and we would have to hunt down, find them, and deal just the same
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, you mean - create demand and the store just happens ?
20:25 <@fmccor> People who want one will ask.
20:25 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I am just saying put out a policy and see what happens
20:25 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: worse case in a year or so it totally fails we make a store or do something else
20:25 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: but we do have someone already doing that, and maybe others? not sure
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, ok, if it doesn't work, we can be a bit more proactive
20:26 <@wltjr> I am not sure if anyone followed up with dude in Russia or if store happened
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, care to summarise please ?
20:26 <@wltjr> I don't believe we have gotten any $ from it, bug again not sure he has either
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, it was pva and he went away to do something
20:27 <@fmccor> He's marked present here now --- could ask.
20:27 < pva> Heh, and while I'm here I can give you some status update :)
20:27 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: we draft and have counsel review a general usage/sale policy for the G logo, t-shirts, mugs, etc, and release media, stipulating like 10-20% of net comes back to foundation based on $ amounts or something
20:27 < pva> I'm working currently on setting up noncomercial organisation for our russian gentoo community
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Thank you pva
20:28 < pva> when I'll finish that (I still need to understand taxes) I'll be back to you )
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, so who is going to do what, and by when ?
20:28 <@fmccor> No one understands taxes, so that will be like never? :)
20:29 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: well I can see about drafting some sort of policy up, but not sure if we should have someone who knows about that stuff do it, or just review it afterward
20:29 <@wltjr> we need to establish a relationship with some pro bono attorneys/counsel IMHO
20:29 <@wltjr> not sure if the SFLC does stuff like that, or some other firm
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, Don't we have some in CA ?
20:30 <@wltjr> considering we might want the same one to help enforce said policy :)
20:30 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: yes, but I think they only dealt with past trustees, so we need to contact them
20:30 < pva> BTW, I still have to read messages on nfp mailing list but I remember there was discussion about seal and I could be wrong but I've remembered that you were going to avoid it...
20:30 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: likely best done initially by a paper official presence, like you or fmccor, pres or vp
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> we need an introduction from past trustees then
20:31 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: yes, I think rl03 was going to intern there or something?
20:31 < pva> I just wanted to say that if you are going to open subdivision in Russia you'll be required to have it :)
20:31 <@fmccor> rl03 was the contact.
20:31 <@wltjr> for sure he is the contact
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, can you follow up on that ... we don't want to let the CA pro-bono thing we have lost interest
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> think*
20:32 <@wltjr> surely not, given their work on the trademark
20:32 <@fmccor> I'll chase Renat down.
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> ok - this will be your topic next meeting
20:33 <@wltjr> fmccor: cool and once we are established with them, I can help out with discussions, draft etc on policy if need be, unless another wants to, or has time
20:33 <@fmccor> Thanks, I guess.
20:33 <@wltjr> er can make time, who has time :)
20:33 <@wltjr> I want to meet him
20:33 <@fmccor> Who?
20:33 <@wltjr> fmccor: anyone who has time :)
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> 224689 Legal fees to for Reinstatement
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> I know its paid but why is the bug restricted ?
20:34 <@tsunam> *shrugs*
20:34 <@fmccor> No idea.
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> In the interests of openness, lets open it :)
20:35 <@fmccor> Done.
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> Trustees and Foundation Article For the GMN
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> some time ago I asked what everyone thought of ^^^
20:36 <@fmccor> I have not seen a bill for the reinstatement blunder, so perhaps he's not charging for that.
20:36 <@wltjr> I can't do anything there, I have flaked to many times as is with helping out with GWN/GMN in any capacity, so will pass entirely
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, lets not ask
20:36 <@wltjr> fmccor: I thought it was all part of the one? that's why it was more than intially thought?
20:36 <@fmccor> Ask?  I wasn't going to call him and ask if he forgot to bill us.
20:36 <@wltjr> :)
20:37 <@fmccor> wltjr, The overrun was partly my fault --- telephone calls mostly.
20:37 <@wltjr> if/when we leave him, I am sure he will let us know if we owe him anything, if we need anything from him in that process
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, The idea is a mugshot a para of bio, a para each on our own aims, and para looking back to 1st March and a jpint para looking forard
20:37 <@wltjr> fmccor: no worries, like I am short winded :)
20:37  * fmccor is not
20:38 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: oh that stuff, I try to be a background player, having effect, but not seen :)
20:38 <@fmccor> (short winded)
20:38 <@wltjr> my parents talk me to talk, but not stfu ;), gift of gab some would say :)
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, we could use a photo of your shadow :)
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, ^^
20:39 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: my middle finger is nice ;) but I can take a pic, need to take another, been a few years, I think one of the last ones was from LWE
20:39 <@tsunam> hmm
20:39 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: about which
20:39 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: no  one would want to read about me :-P
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> GMN Trustee Special
20:39 <@tsunam> I'd do it but...
20:39 <@wltjr> I am not much on disclosing details on myself, other than random commenting, which I do occasionally permanently in email or etc, unless irc is being logged :)
20:40 <@tsunam> wltjr: many of us log irc =)
20:40  * tsunam has 2+ years of logs
20:40 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: but I can come up with something :)
20:40 <@wltjr> tsunam: well not publiclly 
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Its good PR ... the community already knows our differences they don't know what we want to achieve together (we don't know that either)
20:40 <@wltjr> tsunam: I don't care about individuals, but put something in email, or like on a news letter ,it will prosper :)
20:40 <@fmccor> It's a way to show the community the trustees are real and the Foundation is alive.
20:41 <@wltjr> sure sure, I agree, and will cooperate/comply for sure in some capacity
20:41  * wltjr is short, has brown hair and is into Linux :)
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, Oh they know that from reading wltjr :)
20:41 <@fmccor> :)
20:41 <@wltjr> quiet I am not, if I am in a room or etc it will be known, little dude, big presence :)
20:41 <@fmccor> I think the most important part is the joint statement. 
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm offering to write my section up first if you want a template
20:42 <@fmccor> Please.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> I agree about the joint statement - it will help us get our own thoughts together too
20:42 <@fmccor> wltjr, Hm, so am I (all of those).
20:43 <@wltjr> fmccor: maybe I am just an alias of you :)
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> 5. Should Trustees be Permitted to Serve on Council
20:43 <@wltjr> I don't think so, but I believe a few of you all are running, and I respect that
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> Please discuss
20:44 <@tsunam> I don't think one should neccessarily exclude the other
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, is running, tsunam and I declined
20:44 <@wltjr> IMHO a officer, trustee, and council member should not be the same, and maybe not even rel's either, if that's controversial enough, I like separation and focus, with a variety of opinions
20:44 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: I've declined 3 times...that's not a surprise
20:44 <@fmccor> It's already happened a couple times at least (wold31o2 & perhaps g2boojum).
20:44 <@tsunam> cshields as well I believe
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, my concern is that any conflicts of interests weaken both bodies
20:45 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: that's why you can abstain
20:45 <@tsunam> and still have a majority vote
20:45 <@wltjr> I respect both g2boojum and wolf3102 and their contributions to Gentoo, but I feel people can spread themselves to thin, and might unwilling limit their influence or effect in any one area
20:45 <@fmccor> I don't see where the conflict arises.  I'm missing something.
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, that weakens the decisions
20:45 <@tsunam> I disagree but
20:45 <@fmccor> For me, I think devrel is the bigger conflict.
20:45 <@wltjr> fmccor: not so much conflict, but focus and variety of opinion
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, I don't have any examples right now
20:46 <@wltjr> how many normal organizations does someone have like 10 titles :)
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, bey they only have one job
20:46 <@fmccor> So it's potential.  I see it the other way, it helps open the door to cooperation.
20:46 <@wltjr> right now I am not doing anything on amd64, and next to nothing on Java, not entirely because of trustees, but partly
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, I see that too
20:46 <@wltjr> yeah but for example if someone is rel, council, and foundation, that's one opinion
20:47 <@wltjr> in 3 places :(
20:47 <@wltjr> or 4
20:47 <@wltjr> so it's not so much conflict, it's limited points of view
20:47 <@tsunam> well another example. I'm Userrel, Devrel, and trustee
20:47 <@tsunam> currently
20:47 <@wltjr> and focus is not as narrow, so how well will any one be done
20:47  * fmccor is too.
20:47 <@wltjr> tsunam: sure, and for example don't have time for bank account stuff, which is totally fine, no worries there
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> To summarise then - its up to the individual, if they think they have the time, fine
20:48 <@wltjr> but we all have real lives, jobs/businesses, etc, how much time can one give to Gentoo
20:48 <@tsunam> wltjr: more so due to work commitments currently :(
20:48 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I am not sure we should leave everything up to people
20:48 <@wltjr> we need fail safes at high levels IMHO
20:48 <@wltjr> put someone in rel, council, foundation, etc and they are MIA, that's a big impact
20:48 -!- pva [n=pva@gentoo/developer/pva] has left #gentoo-trustees ["Lost Carrier... Don't worry, I'll find it later."]
20:48 <@wltjr> look at the loss of things like Jakub, what if we lost vapier, or others
20:48 <@wltjr> wolf3102, no releases, etc
20:49 <@fmccor> I proposed a policy a while ago to the effect that devrel members should not be on council --- it died stillborn.
20:49 <@wltjr> so no variety of opinions, no narrow focus, big liablility, I don't see the benefit
20:50 <@wltjr> what's to stop someone from being council this year, trustee next, rel another
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't think we can set a policy here - we need to discuss it with the new council, sinceit would work both ways
20:50 <@wltjr> why all at once? is that fair to others?
20:50 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I agree
20:50 <@fmccor> I do too.
20:50 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: IMHO I think we need to make an effort to get a voting project setup
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, maybe thats your conflict of interest (if you are elected)
20:50 <@wltjr> so we can not only discuss with the council, but put forth controversial votes on a more regular basis
20:50 <@wltjr> other than just elections
20:51 <@fmccor> Yes, I mentioned that I thought devrel was more likely to be a conflict.
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, hehe :)
20:51 <@fmccor> wltjr, I think that's happening?  jmbsvicetto  or rane would know.
20:51 <@wltjr> I do respect all of those who have and do hold multiple positions, and my comments are not a reflection on them or their efforts, some what an observance, but surely meant respectfully
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Ok, lets park that one until we have a new council
20:52 <@wltjr> fmccor: yeah but I hope willingly, I kinda talked them into foundation election, and I am happy to see they are doing it with council as well
20:52 <@fmccor> They want to set up the project.
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, I wanted to discuss it before it happened to me - but I declined my nomination
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> 6. Any other business
20:53 <@fmccor> Well, the chances of my being elect are right around 0, so I don't see it as a problem. :)
20:53 <@wltjr> fmccor: well given those that are running I might even vote for you :) even against my thoughts
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, wait until the votes are counted :)
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> 6. Any other business
20:54 <@fmccor> I'm not all that popular with current council. :)
20:54 <@wltjr> but if foundation and council do controversial stuff and same people are on each, will look more like a coup d'etat
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Will you have time to do the end of FY stuff and present a treasuers report to the next meeting ?
20:55 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: yep
20:55 <@fmccor> wltjr, Hadn't thought of that.  Yes, that could be a problem.
20:55 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: I'll have caught  up on the reports
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll put that on Julys Agenda
20:55  * fmccor wonders why we run July -- June.
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> thats all I had,  tsunam anything ?
20:56 <@wltjr> fmccor: summer time, no school/college :)
20:56  * fmccor is well beyond that worry.
20:56 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: did we approve the repayment for the reinstatement
20:56 <@tsunam> I didn't see a yes no vote on it
20:56 <@wltjr> fmccor: it was a joke, meaing young dev base :)
20:56 <@tsunam> fmccor: I hear you on that one
20:56 <@fmccor> I think we did.
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> You want a vote now ?
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> just for the recrod
20:57 <@tsunam> well we've voted on others
20:57 <@wltjr> do we really need to vote, who will oppose that?
20:57 <@tsunam> lol
20:57 <@fmccor> I think we voted on it once?
20:57 <@tsunam> no one but 
20:57 <@tsunam> it is paying a trustee back so
20:57 <@wltjr> it's a foundation necessity, and not an electable bill, we voted to retain Mr. Chew I believe, so any bills are implied to be paid
20:57 <@wltjr> what's our policy there :) what do bylaws say?
20:58 <@tsunam> I'd hope "get me my money" :-P
20:58 <@wltjr> vote to approve reimbursement requests
20:58 <@fmccor> Second.
20:58 <@wltjr> I think that would depend on if the action was voted upon or not?
20:58 <@wltjr> if action voted upon, no need to vote, if not voted on, then maybe vote depending on amount, but if small enough amount, IMHO treasurer should be able to decide
20:59 <@fmccor> Things like reimbursement are legal obligations, no matter how we vote I think.
20:59  * NeddySeagoon proposes a motion that tsunam be reimbursed in full for recent out of pocket expenses concerning the Gentoo Foundation reinstaement 
20:59 <@tsunam> would still like a vote in this case
20:59 <@wltjr> fmccor: sorry, that was a statement :) more than something put forth to the floor
20:59 <@tsunam> as it is to me
20:59 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: second
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote please
20:59 <@wltjr> yeah
20:59 <@fmccor> Yes.
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, ?  you want to vote no ?
20:59 <@tsunam> majority yes, so it passes. I'll take care of sending myself money
21:00 <@tsunam> I'll vote yes
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion carried
21:00  * wltjr should have said no :) just to be a prick :)
21:00 <@tsunam> wltjr: wouldn't of put it past you :-P
21:00 <@wltjr> tsunam: if you really want a vote, chance is one could say no ;)
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, anything else for AOB ?
21:00 <@fmccor> It's still a legal obligation. :)
21:01 <@fmccor> Not from me on AOB.
21:01 <@wltjr> fmccor: what voting? I think only for things we stipluate to ourselves, but who would legally enforce it ;)
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> wltjr, AOB from you ?
21:01 <@wltjr> fmccor: or even call us out on it
21:01 <@tsunam> not that I'm aware of
21:01 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: no, other than private business, shower, etc :)
21:01 <@fmccor> wltjr, No, paying our debts.
21:02 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: did you want to set a time for another bylaws meeting, a final one for the last sections or what?
21:02 <@wltjr> fmccor: well many people seem to find ways out of that these days, so I am sure the foundation could as well :)
21:02 <@fmccor> Yeah,  Let's close the books on that, so to speak.
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Ah thabk you wltjr - What about 1900UTC on Sunday ?
21:02 <@fmccor> Sunday next?
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> 29 June
21:03 <@fmccor> Fine with me.
21:03 <@wltjr> yeah, might as well bite the bullet, weekend after is 4th
21:03 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: our independence day :)
21:03 <@fmccor> Just not 6 July, please (end of a holiday weekend).
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> whats special about 4th ?
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> :)
21:03 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: we became a country, we all party
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> you bit :)
21:03 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: we split from UK :)
21:04 <@fmccor> Worship the president, ...
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> 7. Open floor
21:04 <@wltjr> practice pyroism 
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more from anyone ?
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> An Date of Next Meeting - 13 July on my calander ... is that right
21:05 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: I am not sure we will get large attendences on weekends
21:05 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: might be something to discuss next meeting, other possible times
21:05 <@fmccor> No, this time is terrible.  It was the only time we were all available.
21:05 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: but once we are back to 1 meeting per month might be moot
21:06  * wltjr hears the beach calling about this time on the weekends :) and weekdays as well, hookie time :)
21:06 <@fmccor> Lucky wltjr.
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> So, 13 July 1900UTC for next monthly meeting (we delayed a week this month for Fathers daty)
21:06 <@wltjr> fmccor: choice, I make a bit less than living else where, but wanted the life style, it's what I grew up with, $ will be there eventually
21:07 -!- ahf [i=ahf@exherbo/developer/ahf] has left #gentoo-trustees ["boring"]
21:07 <@wltjr> need to make some more before I can move to beach if I decide to, it's about ~20 minutes away atm, still not bad
21:07 <@fmccor> There's a vote of confidence.  
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, in what ?
21:08 <@fmccor> The "has left" message. :)
21:08  * wltjr ignores those
21:08 <@wltjr> one of the nice features of irssi, which I am still a total newb to
21:08 <@fmccor> I was making a joke.  Not a good one, I guess.
21:09 <@wltjr> fmccor: that or combined IQ is to low :)
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Are we done then ?
21:09 <@fmccor> Seems so.
21:09 <@tsunam> k
21:09 <@tsunam> have a good afternoon
21:09 <@wltjr> NeddySeagoon: seems so, no one else has anything to say really, and conv has turned to chatter
21:10 <@wltjr> yep, same here, have a good one, I am off to smell better
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Sun 29 June for bylaws 13 Jul next meeting both 1900
21:10 <@fmccor> Will tgall_foo do the minutes?  Should be able to from the log.
21:10 <@wltjr> fmccor: can give him a bit, and if not, one of us can
21:10 <@fmccor> Er, summary.
21:10 <@fmccor> OK.
