(11/16/2008 01:00:01 PM) ***NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order.
(11/16/2008 01:00:13 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair represents dmwaters as proxy via phone
(11/16/2008 01:00:22 PM) ***fmccor is here
(11/16/2008 01:00:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks 
(11/16/2008 01:00:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, ??
(11/16/2008 01:00:46 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, She's a neat person.  You'll enjoy the conversation.
(11/16/2008 01:00:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, can you call tsunam please
(11/16/2008 01:01:04 PM) fmccor: Hold on, yes.
(11/16/2008 01:01:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: 1. Introductions - none needed
(11/16/2008 01:01:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: 2. Actions From the Last Meeting
(11/16/2008 01:03:15 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, No answer --- I left a voice mail.  He hasn't been around much, perhaps away on business or pleasure.
(11/16/2008 01:03:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok, we are quarate ... so we can continue
(11/16/2008 01:04:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: Gentoo Foundation Banking - tsunam ... skipped but there has been some snail mail regarding or EIN
(11/16/2008 01:04:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: thats all I know
(11/16/2008 01:04:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: Certified Public Accountant - quantumsummers   update please
(11/16/2008 01:04:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes, so I have 2 candidates
(11/16/2008 01:05:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: one local & is the one I mentioned earlier
(11/16/2008 01:05:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: both pro bono ?
(11/16/2008 01:05:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: to free services we need to banking info
(11/16/2008 01:05:36 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: to get free services
(11/16/2008 01:05:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, did you get that from grant or tsunam ?
(11/16/2008 01:06:00 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: but either way its cheap to get the taxes done
(11/16/2008 01:06:11 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair is typing & talking
(11/16/2008 01:07:08 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have been waiting on bank statements & paypal info.
(11/16/2008 01:07:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok - poke tsunam ...
(11/16/2008 01:07:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: Can you add anything more without the finacials ?
(11/16/2008 01:07:54 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I was unsuccessful talking to ING, regarding netbank.
(11/16/2008 01:08:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Hmm ok ... try grant for old paperwork but the statements may have been online :(
(11/16/2008 01:08:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Deedra needs to know how much $ Gentoo has at this moment
(11/16/2008 01:09:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have no access to any online statements
(11/16/2008 01:09:28 PM) NeddySeagoon:  Deedra please take that up with tsunam 
(11/16/2008 01:10:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, that will be down to grant and/or tsunam 
(11/16/2008 01:10:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(11/16/2008 01:10:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: Moving on ...
(11/16/2008 01:10:20 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will email
(11/16/2008 01:10:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: International Licencing For Gentoo Merchandise - fmccor
(11/16/2008 01:11:04 PM) fmccor: We know what's going on with e.V., and are awaiting a response from them in January.
(11/16/2008 01:11:21 PM) fmccor: Right now they hold the trademark in Europe.
(11/16/2008 01:11:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yep ... what about our international trademark lawyers  ?
(11/16/2008 01:11:59 PM) fmccor: As for elsewhere, we'd work with whoever wants the agreement and with our lawyers to put something together.
(11/16/2008 01:12:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: On a case by case basis ?
(11/16/2008 01:12:16 PM) fmccor: Nothing for them to do until we need something.
(11/16/2008 01:12:33 PM) fmccor: Has to be case by case, because laws are different everywhere.
(11/16/2008 01:12:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok ... next
(11/16/2008 01:12:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: Send friendly cease and desist emails to copyright infringers spotted on cafepress - quantumsummers
(11/16/2008 01:13:15 PM) fmccor: The general outline will be the same everywhere, but every place will have its own peculiarities.
(11/16/2008 01:13:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I am working on this. Sorry for slacking, but I will send this out on Monday & return with a full report.
(11/16/2008 01:13:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok
(11/16/2008 01:13:59 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: My appoogies
(11/16/2008 01:14:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: arg
(11/16/2008 01:14:20 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: apologies 
(11/16/2008 01:14:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: thats why we have these meetings, partly.  To chase slackers :)
(11/16/2008 01:14:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: Propose wording to open Foundation Membership - update bylaws tracker bug -fmccor   I think this is completed and embodied in the new draft ?
(11/16/2008 01:15:28 PM) fmccor: It's fine with me.  My only comment at this point was a typo in 4.4 
(11/16/2008 01:15:39 PM) fmccor: "there" --> "their"
(11/16/2008 01:16:01 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters is fine
(11/16/2008 01:16:08 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: with the proposed changes
(11/16/2008 01:16:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, ok, do in need to fix it prior to Agenda item 3 ?
(11/16/2008 01:16:33 PM) fmccor: ?
(11/16/2008 01:17:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: the bylaws ... we can adopt them with that one change outstanding ... agenda item 3.
(11/16/2008 01:17:37 PM) tsunam: bah..wasn't it suppossed to be at 12 again today?
(11/16/2008 01:17:38 PM) fmccor: Sure.
(11/16/2008 01:17:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: Clarify Trustee/Officer roles to enable a Trustee/Officer role split - update bylaws tracker bug -fmccor  Is that complete too ?
(11/16/2008 01:18:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, your hour changed on Nov 2nd
(11/16/2008 01:18:14 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: right, but I thought we were keeping it at 12 *shrugs*
(11/16/2008 01:18:16 PM) tsunam: apparently not
(11/16/2008 01:18:22 PM) fmccor: I think it was always complete --- no change is needed to split trustee/officer role.
(11/16/2008 01:18:32 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its 19:00 UTC whenever that is
(11/16/2008 01:18:45 PM) tsunam: hehe
(11/16/2008 01:18:55 PM) fmccor: The bylaws assume a split and explain what happens when there isn't one.
(11/16/2008 01:19:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, ok
(11/16/2008 01:19:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: next ..
(11/16/2008 01:19:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: Working with Gentoo e.V. - fmccor 
(11/16/2008 01:19:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: hi tsunam
(11/16/2008 01:20:00 PM) fmccor: We have proposed this to them and suggested a couple possibilities, their response asks us pleas to wait to see what happens at their Jan meeting.
(11/16/2008 01:20:10 PM) tsunam: k
(11/16/2008 01:20:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: thank you
(11/16/2008 01:20:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: lets go back to banking
(11/16/2008 01:20:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: Gentoo Foundation Banking - tsunam
(11/16/2008 01:21:05 PM) tsunam: need to resubmit stuff for the bank, need to call the government to see if they've finally updated the address so I can get the ein number document so we have it
(11/16/2008 01:21:13 PM) tsunam: when I checked about 2-3 weeks ago they hadn't
(11/16/2008 01:21:24 PM) tsunam: and that was a month or so after I'd submitted the change request
(11/16/2008 01:21:49 PM) tsunam: however..
(11/16/2008 01:21:54 PM) tsunam: http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/funds.xml <---there's been updates
(11/16/2008 01:22:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: I guess the government is busy with elections and banking crisis :)
(11/16/2008 01:22:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: excellent tsunam, thank you
(11/16/2008 01:22:33 PM) tsunam: apparently!
(11/16/2008 01:22:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, thanks - thats progress
(11/16/2008 01:22:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam:              404 Error Message: Page Not Found
(11/16/2008 01:22:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/2007q1.xml
(11/16/2008 01:22:58 PM) tsunam: course I need to fix a few it appears!
(11/16/2008 01:23:06 PM) tsunam: 2006 works at least *laughs*
(11/16/2008 01:23:26 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: is there a rough draft available?
(11/16/2008 01:24:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Ending balance for Q4-2007 ?
(11/16/2008 01:24:28 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers: not currently
(11/16/2008 01:24:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(11/16/2008 01:24:50 PM) tsunam: I wil need to do the 3 quarters in 2008 as well
(11/16/2008 01:24:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, do you have a completion date for getting that page up to date ?
(11/16/2008 01:24:57 PM) tsunam: and add 2007/2008 contributors
(11/16/2008 01:25:14 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam: dmwaters (via proxy) wants to know what our balance is currently
(11/16/2008 01:25:18 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: hopefully next week. I need to get last quarters 3 months
(11/16/2008 01:25:24 PM) tsunam: excluding banking
(11/16/2008 01:25:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, soounds good
(11/16/2008 01:25:28 PM) tsunam: which is a check
(11/16/2008 01:25:39 PM) tsunam: *looks*
(11/16/2008 01:25:54 PM) tsunam: assuming firefox doesn't crash
(11/16/2008 01:26:17 PM) tsunam: hmm
(11/16/2008 01:26:32 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters would like the balance to better inform her voting
(11/16/2008 01:26:49 PM) tsunam: *grumbles at paypal*
(11/16/2008 01:27:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: lets move on while paypal thinks ...
(11/16/2008 01:28:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: 3. Consider and approve (if thought fit) revised bylaws
(11/16/2008 01:28:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: The bylaws have been updated in line with the tracker bug ... apart from a typo.
(11/16/2008 01:28:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor It's fine with me.  My only comment at this point was a typo in 4.4 
(11/16/2008 01:29:39 PM) tsunam: just shy of 20k
(11/16/2008 01:29:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: Do we need to discuss or is there a motion to adopt the revised bylaws ?
(11/16/2008 01:29:43 PM) fmccor: "Their" is spelled "there"
(11/16/2008 01:29:49 PM) fmccor: So moved
(11/16/2008 01:30:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: Is there a seconder ?
(11/16/2008 01:30:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters seconds
(11/16/2008 01:30:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: thank you  ...
(11/16/2008 01:30:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: Now to the vote ...
(11/16/2008 01:31:00 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(11/16/2008 01:31:07 PM) tsunam: yes
(11/16/2008 01:31:08 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters: in favor
(11/16/2008 01:31:18 PM) ***NeddySeagoon yes
(11/16/2008 01:31:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: unanimous 
(11/16/2008 01:31:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: carried unamaously  (sp)
(11/16/2008 01:32:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: We need to notify members ... 
(11/16/2008 01:32:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: shall I draft an email?
(11/16/2008 01:32:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, yes please
(11/16/2008 01:32:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: linking to the new bylaws & this meeting
(11/16/2008 01:32:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: include the GMN too
(11/16/2008 01:33:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: very well
(11/16/2008 01:33:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: 4. Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees
(11/16/2008 01:33:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: 177966 Clarify Foundation page on external entities ... I've closed that with a comment pointing to the bylaws
(11/16/2008 01:34:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: 217511 The Gentoo Store is Out of Date - musikc
(11/16/2008 01:34:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, is musikc around ?
(11/16/2008 01:34:31 PM) tsunam: not sure if she's around right now
(11/16/2008 01:34:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its about a month since I've seen her on IRC
(11/16/2008 01:35:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: this should likely be closed, as musikc updated the store
(11/16/2008 01:35:18 PM) tsunam: tsunam * gentoo/xml/htdocs/foundation/en/ (2007q1.xml 2007q2.xml 2007q3.xml  2007q4.xml): its good to actually cvs add them
(11/16/2008 01:35:20 PM) fmccor: I spoke with her a couple weeks ago briefly.
(11/16/2008 01:35:24 PM) tsunam: ^^^ should be fixed in ~ hour
(11/16/2008 01:35:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: musikc, has done some short term fixes ...  she was working  on long term maintainance 
(11/16/2008 01:36:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: 236863 Bylaws Tracker Bug ... I guess we should close that and start a new one
(11/16/2008 01:37:52 PM) fmccor: Or just note on it that there's nothing outstanding as of the date of the comment.
(11/16/2008 01:37:57 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters agrees with closing the existing bug & open new, tracking the newly approved bylaws
(11/16/2008 01:38:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: I've closed it
(11/16/2008 01:38:08 PM) fmccor: :)
(11/16/2008 01:38:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, 56711 Retire: Renat Lumpau (rl03)  I thought you were in discussions with rl03 ?
(11/16/2008 01:39:33 PM) fmccor: I haven't spoken with him at all recently.  I'd close this one and let nature take its course.
fmccor fmccor|away 
(11/16/2008 01:40:01 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters agrees with fmccor
(11/16/2008 01:40:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, give it one more try then post a comment on the bug please
(11/16/2008 01:40:11 PM) fmccor: If I was supposed to be contacting him, I flat out forgot about it.
(11/16/2008 01:40:19 PM) fmccor: Will do.
(11/16/2008 01:40:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ahha
(11/16/2008 01:40:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: 245227 Replacement Drive for Osprey ... blanket limit for repairs
(11/16/2008 01:41:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: We should set a $ limit for infra repairs so we don't have to vote on this sort of stuff 
(11/16/2008 01:42:10 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: $X/month?
(11/16/2008 01:42:13 PM) tsunam: well I'd like to know the total number of servers we own and their age
(11/16/2008 01:42:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: either per repair or an annual repair budget
(11/16/2008 01:42:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I would too
(11/16/2008 01:42:23 PM) tsunam: to make an informed decision about that
(11/16/2008 01:42:38 PM) tsunam: the older the boxes the more there needs to be in the repair budget
(11/16/2008 01:42:47 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can write a little asset tracker app for this
(11/16/2008 01:42:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, or replaced.
(11/16/2008 01:42:51 PM) tsunam: and if we own say 2 boxes...shouldn't need that much annually
(11/16/2008 01:43:05 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters is aware of some rather old machines
(11/16/2008 01:43:12 PM) fmccor: robbat2 can provide that.
(11/16/2008 01:43:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: We should need to vote funds for replacement but not always for repairs
(11/16/2008 01:43:24 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: aye..but that's a seperate issue for budget
(11/16/2008 01:43:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, agreed
(11/16/2008 01:43:49 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: appears that a reasonable monthly $ amount is necessary for repairs
(11/16/2008 01:44:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: anyway, the issue right now is Osprey ... the bug has two approving trustees ... we need one more
(11/16/2008 01:44:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: longer term, this process needs to be slicker
(11/16/2008 01:44:55 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters likes voting on replacement of machines (i.e. large expenses), but prefers no vote for small repairs
(11/16/2008 01:45:18 PM) tsunam: it has mine
(11/16/2008 01:45:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters votes yes
(11/16/2008 01:45:24 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: unanimous
(11/16/2008 01:46:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: We can buy the drive and send it to OUSL or robbat can and be reimbursed. 
(11/16/2008 01:46:11 PM) fmccor: Probably easiest to "Paypal" the $48 or whatever it is to ramereth
(11/16/2008 01:46:19 PM) tsunam: sadly not right now
(11/16/2008 01:46:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, ok
(11/16/2008 01:46:29 PM) tsunam: no ability to paypal from one paypal account to another
(11/16/2008 01:46:42 PM) tsunam: that's related to the lack of an active bank account
(11/16/2008 01:46:48 PM) tsunam: best I could do is mail a check
(11/16/2008 01:46:48 PM) fmccor: Oh.
(11/16/2008 01:46:53 PM) tsunam: via paypal =/
(11/16/2008 01:47:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: hehe .. that would be a personal cheque from you though ?
(11/16/2008 01:47:24 PM) tsunam: nope
(11/16/2008 01:47:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: are you certain you can send a check via paypal?
(11/16/2008 01:47:36 PM) tsunam: *nods*
(11/16/2008 01:47:51 PM) fmccor: That works.  As long as they know that's happening, I'd think that between them they could get the drive.
(11/16/2008 01:47:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, discuss it with ramereth please
(11/16/2008 01:47:59 PM) tsunam: i had just looked there's a 500 dollar limit currently per month
(11/16/2008 01:48:07 PM) tsunam: will do
(11/16/2008 01:48:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: longer term what do we need ?
(11/16/2008 01:48:32 PM) NeddySeagoon: Info to set a budget I suppose ?
(11/16/2008 01:48:39 PM) tsunam: yep
(11/16/2008 01:48:42 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(11/16/2008 01:49:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, can you write up what info you need and email it to trustees@  and infras alias please
(11/16/2008 01:49:26 PM) tsunam: sure
(11/16/2008 01:49:32 PM) NeddySeagoon: tanks
(11/16/2008 01:49:36 PM) tsunam: as far as a budget or ?
(11/16/2008 01:50:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: Information ... if you want infra to suggest a number, theres no harm in that but we don't have to agree it
(11/16/2008 01:50:19 PM) tsunam: k
(11/16/2008 01:50:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters thinks $200 is appropriate for a blanket amount to be used emergency repairs
(11/16/2008 01:50:37 PM) tsunam: that'd cover a hard drive or two
(11/16/2008 01:50:45 PM) tsunam: but wouldn't likely cover a raid controller for instance
(11/16/2008 01:50:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2 has some ideas too but hes marked |na just now
(11/16/2008 01:50:54 PM) tsunam: its a tough thing to come up with :-P
(11/16/2008 01:51:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok ... next
(11/16/2008 01:51:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June 2008
(11/16/2008 01:51:33 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: just a sec
(11/16/2008 01:52:14 PM) tsunam: I hadn't quite got to the point as I've not gotten the last 2 quarters of the 2008 fy done
(11/16/2008 01:52:17 PM) tsunam: just the first half
(11/16/2008 01:52:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters would like approval on any expenditure over $200 due to current income expectations. acceptance done via email by majority of trustees
(11/16/2008 01:52:28 PM) tsunam: I got tied up far too long with work this month :(
(11/16/2008 01:52:42 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, Sounds reasonable
(11/16/2008 01:52:50 PM) tsunam: dmwaters is aware what our current income per quarter is correct?
(11/16/2008 01:53:17 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: wellm it appears to be ~1K/month in 2006
(11/16/2008 01:53:18 PM) tsunam: or at least historically been 
(11/16/2008 01:53:28 PM) tsunam: 1-2k is approximately correct
(11/16/2008 01:54:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters stands by here earlier statement regarding a $200 limit
(11/16/2008 01:54:26 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: *her
(11/16/2008 01:55:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters idea is noted we will take it into account when we formulate budgets.  The $200 limit could be applied in other areas too, its just infra brought the topic up
(11/16/2008 01:55:27 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, I think robbat2 was OK with that for things other than major acquisitions.
(11/16/2008 01:55:50 PM) ***NeddySeagoon doesn't wok well in $
(11/16/2008 01:55:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: work*
(11/16/2008 01:55:59 PM) fmccor: That would be a capital budget rather than expense budget.
(11/16/2008 01:56:28 PM) fmccor: RIght now, 1 Euro is about $1.25 or $1.30
(11/16/2008 01:56:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, I don't do Euros either :)
(11/16/2008 01:57:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: moving on
(11/16/2008 01:57:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: 6. Foundation Knowledge Management Needs
(11/16/2008 01:57:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, this was yours ...
(11/16/2008 01:58:02 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I did post the initial spec to the mailing list
(11/16/2008 01:58:11 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: work is on-going
(11/16/2008 01:58:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: any update ?
(11/16/2008 01:58:37 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have a membership app, I have a form to collect & tag any file
(11/16/2008 01:59:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, just in time for the stampeed to join our Foundation 
(11/16/2008 01:59:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: working on parsing emails
(11/16/2008 01:59:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: natural language processing is a lifes work
(11/16/2008 02:00:01 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: heh, just tagging some things
(11/16/2008 02:00:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: Moving on ..
(11/16/2008 02:00:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: 7. Actions From Previous Meetings on hold for one or more actions above ...
(11/16/2008 02:00:57 PM) fmccor: $1.00 = £0.669
(11/16/2008 02:01:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: can we use paypal to sent the $200 for IP fees?
(11/16/2008 02:01:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Licencing For emtom.cz  and Licencing For Projektfarm GmbH  thats really for the eV just now.  Lets keep that on hold until Jan 2009 
(11/16/2008 02:02:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, ^^
(11/16/2008 02:02:32 PM) tsunam: hmm
(11/16/2008 02:02:44 PM) tsunam: which ip fee's?
(11/16/2008 02:02:50 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, That is not a critical item, but should be done.
(11/16/2008 02:02:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Fix name and address on IPR/trademark documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees (needs a bank)
(11/16/2008 02:03:00 PM) fmccor: We own two trademarks in the US.
(11/16/2008 02:03:02 PM) tsunam: ah
(11/16/2008 02:03:05 PM) tsunam: yes
(11/16/2008 02:03:11 PM) fmccor: Need to fix the address at some point.
(11/16/2008 02:03:18 PM) tsunam: I can certainly send it via check, just need an address
(11/16/2008 02:03:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: may as well get it moving ...
(11/16/2008 02:03:52 PM) tsunam: btw quarterly reports for 2007 are up now
(11/16/2008 02:04:01 PM) fmccor: tsunam, Bug me for it tomorrow.  I need to coordinate with the lawyer before sending money.
(11/16/2008 02:04:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok
(11/16/2008 02:04:14 PM) tsunam: fmccor: sure
(11/16/2008 02:04:27 PM) tsunam: fmccor: if I remember, I suspect tomorrow at work will be a bit crazy
(11/16/2008 02:04:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: 8. Any other business
(11/16/2008 02:04:47 PM) fmccor: tsunam, Actually, she's a neighbor of yours, I think.  You could just drop in. :)
(11/16/2008 02:04:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters ?
(11/16/2008 02:05:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: none for dmwaters
(11/16/2008 02:05:11 PM) tsunam: fmccor: probably
(11/16/2008 02:05:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, AoB ?
(11/16/2008 02:05:19 PM) tsunam: none
(11/16/2008 02:05:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor,  ?
(11/16/2008 02:05:29 PM) fmccor: None
(11/16/2008 02:05:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have a few things ...
(11/16/2008 02:05:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: DoNM ...
(11/16/2008 02:06:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: 14 December 1900 UTC 
(11/16/2008 02:06:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: and setting a recording date.
(11/16/2008 02:06:49 PM) tsunam: fine by me
(11/16/2008 02:07:03 PM) fmccor: Should work for me.
(11/16/2008 02:08:00 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwatters is uncertain of her availability
(11/16/2008 02:08:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: thats the due date .. we'll go with it
(11/16/2008 02:08:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: and ...
(11/16/2008 02:08:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Earliest date for new bylaws      2 Dec 2008
(11/16/2008 02:08:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Trustee Election Nominations open 1 Feb 2009
(11/16/2008 02:08:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Trustee Voting opens              1 Mar 2009
(11/16/2008 02:08:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: New Trustees take office        End Mar 2009
(11/16/2008 02:09:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: we have to give 15 days notice to our members - the new bylaws come into effect on 2 Dec
(11/16/2008 02:09:47 PM) tsunam: k
(11/16/2008 02:10:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: We could accept but not process applications for membership before that time
(11/16/2008 02:10:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters is amenable 
(11/16/2008 02:10:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: To allow nominations to open on 1 Feb, we need a recording date a few weeks beforehand
(11/16/2008 02:11:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: say early jan
(11/16/2008 02:11:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: The 11 Jan 09 is our january meeting, so I'm proposing that.
(11/16/2008 02:12:15 PM) fmccor: Good with me.
(11/16/2008 02:12:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters is happy with that
(11/16/2008 02:12:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: Anyone who becomes a member after 11 Jan, does not get to stand or vote in the 2009 election
(11/16/2008 02:13:08 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters: ok
(11/16/2008 02:13:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: We will have a new standing agenda item ... membership applications
(11/16/2008 02:13:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, anything ?
(11/16/2008 02:13:54 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: would you like me to create the form?
(11/16/2008 02:14:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, we need to be sure we gather all the required information, so yes please.
(11/16/2008 02:14:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: leave a pile of forms by the dev lounge coffee machine too :)
(11/16/2008 02:14:56 PM) fmccor: For developers, do we need more than an email?
(11/16/2008 02:15:00 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, I will make a draft & post to trustees@
(11/16/2008 02:15:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, probably. we need gpg key too ... its all in the bylaws
(11/16/2008 02:16:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes key is needed
(11/16/2008 02:16:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: to sign votes, etc
(11/16/2008 02:16:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, you need to get the bylaws announcement out today/tomorrow.  The 15 days counts from the announce
(11/16/2008 02:16:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Ok, I can do it later today
(11/16/2008 02:17:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto,  had some concerns about voting but hes not around
(11/16/2008 02:18:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: any more for any more ... or its Open Floor
(11/16/2008 02:18:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: not here
(11/16/2008 02:18:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: 9. Open floor
(11/16/2008 02:19:35 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: any business?
(11/16/2008 02:19:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: I think we are done ...
(11/16/2008 02:20:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: Meeting closed,  thanks everyone
