---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of May 19th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Announcing Gentoo Games, Inc.  
 * Gentoo Linux attends E3 
    
Announcing Gentoo Games, Inc.
-----------------------------
  
On May 15th, Daniel Robbins and several other Gentoo Linux developers 
announced the creation of a new company called Gentoo Games, Inc. 

The mission of Gentoo Games is to advance Linux gaming. The initial 
efforts of Gentoo Games will be focused around the Gentoo GameCD 
technology, which allows anyone with a modern PC to put a CD in their 
computer, turn it on, and have the GameCD boot directly into the game. The 
game runs from the GameCD, and the GameCD handles the auto-detection and 
configuration of all hardware. 

By doing this, the Gentoo GameCD transforms any PC with an NVIDIA or ATI 
graphics card into a console-like system. And because the GameCD can be 
used by anyone -- even Windows users -- it expands the reach of 
Linux-based gaming technologies tremendously. The goal of this effort is 
to cause Linux gaming to rise to a new level of prominence that will 
result in wonderful things for Linux gamers, Linux game developers and 
publishers, Linux adoption as a whole, and of course GameCD users who can 
now have a console-like experience on any modern PC thanks to the 
flexibility and power of free software. 

Gentoo Games, Inc. is a separate, independent entity from the Gentoo Linux 
free software project. This was done to ensure that the commercial nature 
of Gentoo Games will not impact the integrity of the Gentoo Linux social 
contract. Funds generated by Gentoo Games, Inc. will be used to fund 
future development of Gentoo Linux as well as GNU/Linux in general. In 
addition, Gentoo Games hopes to provide exciting opportunities for capable 
developers who would like to help us transform Linux gaming. 
 
One of the first benefits to be realized from the creation of Gentoo 
Games, Inc. (even before Gentoo Games, Inc. officially existed) was last 
week's announcement that Gentoo Linux will soon support full 64-bit 
functionality on the AMD Opteron platform. 
 
Gentoo Linux attends E3
-----------------------
  
Gentoo Linux was present at the recent Electronic Entertainment Exposition 
in Los Angeles to announce the creation of Gentoo Games and the America's 
Army GameCD. The show was a huge success, with many companies expressing 
interest in Gentoo Games' GameCD technology. In between meetings, the 
Gentoo Linux folks were able to see at least part of the rest of the show, 
including some very impressive booths by NVIDIA and the US Army. 
 
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: kopete 
 * GLSA: gnupg 
 * GLSA: shadow 
 * New Security Bug Reports 
    
GLSA: kopete
------------
  
The GnuPG plugin in kopete does not properly cleanse the command-line when 
executing gpg, which could allow remote attackers to execute arbitrary 
commands. 
 
 * Severity: Critical - Cryptographic compromise, remote execution of 
   arbitrary code. 
 * Packages Affected: net-im/kopete prior to kopete-0.6.2 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge kopete, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[1] 
 
 1. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=53909
    
GLSA: gnupg
-----------
  
There is a bug in GnuPG's validation code that permits keys with more than 
one user to cause all user IDs on that key to be treated as though they 
are as valid as the most valid key. 
 
 * Severity: High - Cryptographic compromise. 
 * Packages Affected: app-crypt/gnupg prior to gnupg-1.2.2 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge gnupg, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[2] 
 * Advisory[3] 
 
 2. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54323
 3. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=105215110111174&w=2
    
GLSA: shadow
------------
  
An upgrade is available for the shadow utility to mitigate a bug in 
OpenSSH that permits remote attackers to identify the account names for 
valid users on the system (see last week's GWN). 
 
 * Severity: High - Information exposure. 
 * Packages Affected: sys-apps/shadow prior to shadow-4.0.3-r5 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge shadow, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[4] 
 * Advisory[5] 
 
 4. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=53826
 5. http://lab.mediaservice.net/advisory/2003-01-openssh.txt
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted this week: 
 
 * [6]dev-db/firebird 
 * [7]sys-apps/xinetd 
 * [8]app=games/unreal-tournament 
 * [9]app-cdr/cdrtools 
 * [10]app-text/lv 
 
 6. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20837
 7. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20992
 8. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20993
 9. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20997
 10. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20998

    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
Kenneth and how he switched his school to Gentoo Linux
 
Currently a high-school senior, Kenneth does some work on the school's 
computers during his free time. One day a member of the computer staff 
asked him to install Linux on six of the lab's 44 computers after being 
not too happy with what using Office XP would cost the school. So Kenneth 
decided to make an image containing KDE, GNOME, OpenOffice.org, Mozilla, 
Samba, CUPS, distcc, gaim (what a nice school! ;), MPlayer, Flash, Java 
and GNUPlot. And of course he was using Gentoo Linux for his efforts!
 
Some problems
 
As the school uses a Windows network, Kenneth had to assure to make logons 
work without knowing the administrator password. Furthermore students have 
to be able to access their server space located on machines running 
windows. And of course you have to convice people that Linux is not evil...
 
Clever solutions
 
In oder to get logins to work, Kenneth patched the GDM source to run a 
script which creates a UID if it doesn't already exist. smb_auth is used 
for PAM and creates home directories according to a template Kenneth made. 
There were problems with a few programs that recorded the home directory 
in their configs (e.g. OpenOffice.org), so he made a symlink for it which 
the template account uses as home directory. To mount Samba shares on 
login and unmount them on logout he uses smb_authtoken and wrote a C 
program that manages the mounts by calling smbmount and smbumount.
 
For easier updates Kenneth gets some stuff from /usr/portage from NFS 
shares, uses distcc on the boxes and set up a local rsync mirror. When 
administrating his machines, he uses a special konsole profile which runs 
ssh to each of them and uses "send input to all".
 
KDE is used as the standard desktop environment, CUPS handles the network 
printers and KDE has shortcuts to the various file servers.
 
Conclusion
 
On the first day, Kenneth registered over 57 new users. Some people, 
including a teacher, really liked it. Kenneth put explanations on each 
icon, so people didn't have a hard time figuring out what they did, but 
some people just kept looking for Internet Explorer and didn't quite get 
why it's not there. Other problems included mounting floppies or just 
plain refusal to use anything else than Windows. However, Kenneth noticed 
that some students only use "his" computers, even though they have no clue 
at all what a kernel is. But his greatest day came when the NT print 
servers went down and everybody who wanted to print had to use the Gentoo 
boxes for this task. Even the chemistry teacher (who was previously mad 
about different software) had to admit that he "played the linux game and 
it printed fine.".
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Chad Huneycutt
 
Chad Huneycutt[11] works on laptop stuff. Busy in real life, he claims to 
be relatively inactive as a Gentoo developer, but currently he's working 
on getting profiles(so that configuration for several different network 
environments can be stored and chosen from) and automatic network 
configuration going. While pcmcia-cs[12] already supports 'schemes', Chad 
is looking for an alternative that will integrate with Gentoo's current 
configuration system, and thinks that the ultimate solution will require 
enhancement of Gentoo's init scripts and a little hacking of pcmcia-cs to 
make it all work together. And as for automatic network hacking, Chad is 
working with Peter Johanson[13] on adding wireless AP detection to the 
existing mix of good utilities that are already out there. 

 11. chadh@gentoo.org
 12. http://pcmcia-cs.sourceforge.net/
 13. latexer@gentoo.org
 
Chad began using Gentoo about two years ago when he read drobbins' IBM 
Developerworks articles, and like most developers joined the team by 
submitting ebuilds, hanging out on IRC (Chad's first time on IRC), and 
making a nuisance of himself. While he has a Sourceforge project 
(hodgepodge[14]), he says that it's a library of some Java code he wrote a 
long time ago and that he hasn't done much OSS work outside of Gentoo. 
Chad says that if he finishes the network profile stuff described above, 
it'll be his greatest achievement yet. 

 14. http://sourceforge.net/projects/hodgepodge/
 
A Ph.D student in Computer Science at the Georgia Institute of technology, 
Chad studies computer architecture, working in particular on a project 
called SoftCache, an amalgamation of compiler, cache, and embedded systems 
concepts. Chad uses Evolution, Mozilla, Xchat, and Gabber everyday, while 
his tools of the trade are vim, gcc, and gdb (in that order), all running 
under GNOME currently, although he also uses KDE regularly. Chad, 28, 
lives in Atlanta, Georgia with his wife of almost seven years and his two 
year-old son. While he'd love to play tennis and bridge if he had time, 
what he usually does is spend time with his son and play (mostly German) 
board games. 
   
=========================
5. Heard In The Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Gamers in Seventh Heaven
 
The only other news so far this year responsible for an equally generous 
amount of excitement and controversial debate in the Gentoo Forums was the 
April fool's joke... The strong gamers and players community in Gentoo 
(complete with a forum of their own) has greeted the creation of Gentoo 
Games Inc. with the utmost gratitude and exploded in speculation as to 
what exactly the new company will be doing, aside from the America's Army 
CD that served as a kickoff to the new legal entity. While some people 
prefer to discuss whether it's politically wise to move into this 
direction to begin with, others tried to alleviate the burden on 
Supercomputing's server bandwidth by hosting the iso image -- only to see 
their FTP servers crash almost instantly...
 
 * Good luck to Gentoo Games Inc. !![15] 
 * America's Army: politically sensitive?[16] 
 * Gentoo Games !!?!!?[17] 
 * YEAH America's Army GameCD is out !![18] 
 
 15. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54265
 16. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54311
 17. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54133
 18. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54264
 
Ahead of Their Times
 
Strangely enough, Gentoo's much less controversial announcement of teaming 
up with Super Computer Inc. for porting Linux to the Opteron platform went 
without mention in this thread, but it seems as if people are already busy 
optimizing compiler settings for systems with AMD's new 64-bit CPU:
 
 * Gentoo on the Opteron (x86-64)[19] 
 
 19. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54312
 
Patch Peeve
 
John Whitney aka jjw[20] has developed an application that promises to 
reduce download times when upgrading software, by fetching only 
differentials between old and new versions of the respective source code, 
and applying them as patches to the version already locally available. 
Here's the discussion thread that greets his ebuild submission:

 * Deltup will update packages and reduce download time[21] 

 20. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=16794
 21. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=53406
    
Gentoo Users
------------
  
Learning the Gentoo Ways
 
Where is xinetd? An innocent question by a Redhat user who went to look 
for the missing daemon in Gentoo triggered an interesting debate on open 
ports, enhancing security and the virtues of a minimal default 
installation: 
 
 * ports and services[22] 
 
 22. http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user
     &root=%3CNDBBLGIKBJENLAMOLFHGEEPCCBAB.mknecht%40controlnet.com%3E
 
Mostly Harmless
 
One of those pesky error messages recorded during bootup, the "spurious 
8259A interrupt", is sufficiently widespread[23] to cause uncertainty 
among Gentoo users. The long and the short of it: If it hurts when you do 
that, don't do that. Mark Knecht explains[24] how this error message may 
sometimes only appear when a system is powered up, but not if it's simply 
being rebooted. And unless there appears to be something seriously wrong 
with a system as a result of it, there's no need to worry, says hardware 
buff[25] Joe Stone:
 
 * spurious 8259A interrupt: IRQ7.[26] 

 23. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/32861
 24. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/32763
 25. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/32769
 26. http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user
     &root=%3C200305121659.43606.Harlekin_666%40gmx.net%3E
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
System health and portage diagnostics
 
Dhruba Bandopadhyay thinks[27] that a lot of the problems user's have when 
intalling new ebuilds can be solved by issuing ldconfig, env-update, 
source /etc/profile or revdep-rebuild (from the gentoolkit package). So he 
proposes "that all tools that are scattered around the various packages 
intended for diagnosing and maintaining system health be integrated into 
one and included in portage". He has received no feedback so far! 

 27. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/8622
 
ChangeLog change
 
Weeve timidly asked[28] about the changes to the format of ChangeLogs. 
Gentoo developer Dan Armak explained[29] the reasons behind this 
"change".. and how it was that there was no change at all! 

 28. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/8603
 29. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/8607
 
Improved JDBC support
 
Gentoo developer Dylan Carlson posted[30] to gentoo-dev to announce the 
availability of six new packages added to the "dev-java" category that 
will bring JDBC connectivity support to Gentoo. 

 30. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/8602
 
[WIP] GCC 3.3
 
Gentoo developer Spider announced[31] an initial ebuild for GCC 3.3. 
"Comments and testers are welcome :)" 

 31. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/8624
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Cologne Meeting Aftermath
 
About a dozen Gentoo users made it to last week's regional meeting in 
Germany. Hellers Brauhaus in Cologne was packed with laptops, an unusually 
high density of electronics for this rather down-to-earth brewery outlet, 
and everybody of course had a splendid time. In a remarkably swift 
response to the GWN's mistake in announcing the wrong location two weeks 
ago, the next meeting is indeed scheduled to take place in Bonn - we know 
a self-fulfilling prophecy when we see one... And this is what German 
Gentooists look like after dark:
 
Journee de Gentooiens in France - Yes, But Where?
 
In spite of at least one semi-serious offer for a shuttle service from the 
airport to the venue, the issue of a French Gentoo user meeting raised 
last week is unlikely to resolve with Martinique as its location. Thanks 
to her colonial past, France has left a prominent linguistic heritage all 
over the planet, and lots of French-speaking Gentooists live in very nice 
spots at that. But it's hard to find an equidistant area for a meeting if 
you have Guadeloupe, New Caledonia and Belgium sitting on the extremes of 
the map, so people are gradually shifting towards regional meetings here 
and there. Feel free to post your own suggestions at this thread[32] in 
the French forum. 

 32. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=53860
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage this week
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
We are aware that the USE variables section has dissapeared from Portage 
Watch. It will be back shortly!
 
 * app-admin/aide: AIDE (Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment) is a 
   replacement for Tripwire[33] 
 * app-cdr/cdrtools: A set of tools for CDR drives, including 
   cdrecord.[34] 
 * app-crypt/gnupg: The GNU Privacy Guard, a GPL pgp replacement[35] 
 * app-emulation/basiliskII: BasiliskII-0.9.0 Macintosh Emulator (Stable 
   Release)[36] 
 * app-i18n/canna: A client-server based Kana-Kanji conversion system[37] 
 * app-office/gnucash: A personal finance manager[38] 
 * app-office/gnumeric: Gnumeric, the GNOME Spreadsheet[39] 
 * app-office/lyx: WYSIWYM frontend for LaTeX[40] 
 * app-sci/gri: language for scientific graphics programming[41] 
 * app-sci/mupad: MuPAD is an open computer algebra system[42] 
 * app-sci/otter: An Automated Deduction System.[43] 
 * app-sci/pari: A software package for computer-aided number theory[44] 
 * app-sci/tbass: Balsa is both a framework for synthesising asynchronous 
   hardware systems and the language for describing such systems[45] 
 * dev-db/freetds: Tabular Datastream Library[46] 
 * dev-db/mysql++: C++ API interface to the MySQL database[47] 
 * dev-db/mysqltool: Web interface for managing one or more mysql server 
   installations[48] 
 * dev-java/bcel: The Byte Code Engineering Library: analyze, create, 
   manipulate Java class files.[49] 
 * dev-java/bsh: BeanShell is a small, free, embeddable, Java source 
   interpreter with object scripting language features.[50] 
 * dev-java/cryptix-jce: Cryptix JCE is a complete clean-room 
   implementation of the official JCE 1.2 API as published by Sun.[51] 
 * dev-java/infobus: InfoBus enables dynamic exchange of data between 
   JavaBeans component architecture.[52] 
 * dev-java/jaf: Sun's JavaBeans Activation Framework (JAF)[53] 
 * dev-libs/atk: Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[54] 
 * dev-lisp/gcl: GNU Common Lisp[55] 
 * dev-ruby/amrita: A HTML/XHTML template library for Ruby[56] 
 * dev-ruby/amstd: Ruby utility collection by Minero Aoki[57] 
 * dev-ruby/devel-logger: Lightweight logging utility[58] 
 * dev-ruby/eruby: eRuby interprets a Ruby code embedded text file.[59] 
 * dev-ruby/fxruby: FXRuby is the Ruby language binding to the FOX GUI 
   toolkit.[60] 
 * dev-ruby/mysql-ruby: A Ruby extention library to use MySQL[61] 
 * dev-ruby/rmagick: An interface between Ruby and the ImageMagick(TM) 
   image processing library[62] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-postgres: An extension library to access a PostgreSQL 
   database from Ruby[63] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-tcpwrap: A TCP wrappers library for Ruby[64] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo: A set of language and system independant CORBA 
   interfaces[65] 
 * gnome-base/gail: Part of Gnome Accessibility[66] 
 * gnome-base/gdm: GNOME2 Display Manager[67] 
 * gnome-extra/acme: GNOME tool to make use of the multimedia buttons 
   present on most laptops and internet keyboards.[68] 
 * gnome-extra/bug-buddy: Bug Report helper for Gnome[69] 
 * gnome-extra/gal: The Gnome Application Libraries[70] 
 * gnome-extra/gcalctool: A scientific calculator for Gnome2[71] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-pilot: Gnome Pilot apps[72] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-utils: Utilities for the Gnome2 desktop[73] 
 * gnome-extra/gtkhtml: Lightweight HTML rendering/printing/editing 
   engine.[74] 
 * media-gfx/aoi: A free, open-source 3D modelling and rendering 
   studio.[75] 
 * media-plugins/alsa-xmms: Allows XMMS to output on any ALSA 0.9* device. 
   Supports surround 4.0 output with conversion[76] 
 * media-video/ati-drivers: Ati precompiled drivers for r300, r250 and 
   r200 chipsets[77] 
 * media-video/cinelerra: Cinelerra - Professional Video Editor[78] 
 * net-analyzer/cacti: Cacti is a complete frondend to rrdtool[79] 
 * net-firewall/firestorm: Network IDS[80] 
 * net-fs/autofs: Kernel based automounter[81] 
 * net-im/bitlbee: Bitlbee is an irc to IM gateway that support mutliple 
   IM protocols[82] 
 * net-irc/lostirc: A simple but functional graphical IRC client[83] 
 * net-irc/ninja: Ninja IRC Client[84] 
 * net-libs/gnet: GNet network library.[85] 
 * net-libs/libident: A small library to interface to the Ident protocol 
   server[86] 
 * net-libs/libwww: A general-purpose client side WEB API[87] 
 * net-libs/soup: Soup is a SOAP implementation[88] 
 * net-mail/amavis: A perl module which integrates virus scanning software 
   with your MTA[89] 
 * net-mail/balsa: Email client for GNOME[90] 
 * net-mail/bogofilter: Bayesian spam filter designed with fast 
   algorithms, and tuned for speed.[91] 
 * net-mail/checkpassword: A uniform password checking interface for root 
   applications[92] 
 * net-mail/courier: An MTA designed specifically for maildirs[93] 
 * net-misc/aria: Aria is a download manager with a GTK+ GUI, it downloads 
   files from the Internet via HTTP/HTTPS or FTP.[94] 
 * net-nds/openldap: LDAP suite of application and development tools[95] 
 * net-nds/yp-tools: NIS Tools[96] 
 * net-nds/ypbind: Multithreaded NIS bind service[97] 
 * net-p2p/bittorrent: BitTorrent is a tool for distributing files via a 
   distributed network of nodes[98] 
 * net-wireless/hostap: HostAP wireless drivers[99] 
 * sys-apps/acpid: Daemon for Advanced Configuration and Power 
   Interface.[100] 
 * sys-apps/baselayout: Base layout for Gentoo Linux filesystem (incl. 
   initscripts and sysvinit)[101] 
 * sys-devel/gcc: The GNU Compiler Collection. Includes C/C++ and java 
   compilers[102] 
 * sys-kernel/compaq-sources: Kernel from the Compaq Distribution of Red 
   Hat Linux (ALPHA).[103] 
 * sys-libs/cracklib: Password Checking Library[104] 
 * sys-libs/glibc: GNU libc6 (also called glibc2) C library[105] 
 * sys-libs/libcap: POSIX 1003.1e capabilities[106] 
 * sys-libs/libchipcard: Libchipcard is a library for easy access to chip 
   cards via chip card readers (terminals).[107] 
 * x11-libs/fltk: C++ user interface toolkit for X and OpenGL.[108] 
 * x11-libs/gtkglext: GL extentions for Gtk+ 2.0[109] 
 * x11-plugins/asmon: WindowMaker/AfterStep system monitor dockapp[110] 
 * x11-terms/mlterm: A multi-lingual terminal emulator[111] 
 
 33. http://www.cs.tut.fi/~rammer/aide.html
 34. http://www.fokus.gmd.de/research/cc/glone/employees/joerg.schilling/
     private/cdrecord.html
 35. http://www.gnupg.org/
 36. http://www.uni-mainz.de/~bauec002/B2Main.html
 37. http://canna.sourceforge.jp/
 38. http://www.gnucash.org/
 39. http://www.gnome.org/gnome-office/gnumeric.shtml
 40. http://www.lyx.org/
 41. http://gri.sourceforge.net/
 42. http://www.mupad.de/index_uni.shtml
 43. http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/AR/otter/
 44. http://www.parigp-home.de/
 45. http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/amulet/projects/balsa/
 46. http://www.freetds.org/
 47. http://www.mysql.org/downloads/api-mysql++.html
 48. http://www.dajoba.com/projects/mysqltool/
 49. http://jakarta.apache.org/bcel/
 50. http://www.beanshell.org/
 51. http://cryptix.org/products/jce/
 52. http://java.sun.com/products/javabeans/infobus/index.html
 53. http://java.sun.com/products/javabeans/glasgow/jaf.html
 54. http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gap/
 55. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcl/gcl.html
 56. http://www.brain-tokyo.jp/research/amrita/index.html
 57. http://www.loveruby.net/en/amstd.html
 58. http://rrr.jin.gr.jp/doc/devel-logger/
 59. http://www.modruby.net
 60. http://www.fxruby.org/
 61. http://www.tmtm.org/en/mysql/ruby/
 62. http://home.nc.rr.com/rmagick/
 63. http://www.postgresql.jp/interfaces/ruby/
 64. http://raa.ruby-lang.org/list.rhtml?name=ruby-tcpwrap
 65. http://www.gnome.org/
 66. http://www.gnome.org/
 67. http://www.gnome.org/
 68. http://www.hadess.net/misc-code.php3
 69. http://www.gnome.org/
 70. http://www.gnome.org/
 71. http://calctool.sourceforge.net/
 72. http://www.gnome.org/gnome-pilot/
 73. http://www.gnome.org/
 74. http://www.gnome.org/
 75. http://aoi.sourceforge.net/index
 76. http://savannah.gnu.org/download/alsa-xmms/
 77. http://www.ati.com
 78. http://heroinewarrior.com/cinelerra.php3
 79. http://www.raxnet.net/products/cacti/
 80. http://www.scaramanga.co.uk/firestorm/
 81. http://www.linux-consulting.com/Amd_AutoFS/autofs.html
 82. http://www.lintux.cx/bitlbee.html
 83. http://lostirc.sourceforge.net/
 84. http://ninja.qoop.org/
 85. http://www.gnetlibrary.org/
 86. ftp://ftp.lysator.liu.se/pub/ident/libs
 87. http://www.w3.org/Library/
 88. http://www.gnome.org/
 89. http://www.amavis.org
 90. http://balsa.gnome.org
 91. http://bogofilter.sourceforge.net/
 92. http://cr.yp.to/checkpwd.html
 93. http://www.courier-mta.org/
 94. http://aria.rednoah.com
 95. http://www.OpenLDAP.org/
 96. http://www.linux-nis.org/nis
 97. http://www.linux-nis.org/nis/ypbind-mt/index.html
 98. http://bitconjurer.org/BitTorrent
 99. http://hostap.epitest.fi/
 100. http://acpid.sourceforge.net/
 101. http://www.gentoo.org/
 102. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html
 103. http://www.support.compaq.com/alpha-tools/redhat/
 104. http://www.crypticide.org/users/alecm/
 105. http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/libc.html
 106. http://linux.kernel.org/pub/linux/libs/security/linux-privs/
 107. http://www.libchipcard.de/
 108. http://www.fltk.org
 109. http://gtkglext.sourceforge.net/
 110. http://rio.vg/asmon/
 111. http://mlterm.sourceforge.net/

Total categories: 82
Total packages: 4396
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[112]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. In the last 7 days, activity on the site has resulted 
in: 

 112. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 277 new bugs this week 
 * 462 bugs closed or resolved this week 
 * 3 previously closed bugs were reopened this week. 
 * 2531 total bugs currently marked 'new' 
 * 336 total bugs currently assigned to developers 
 
There are currently 2910 bugs open in Bugzilla. Of these: 42 are labeled 
'blocker', 109 are labeled 'critical', and 233 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs this week are: 
 
 * Sven Vermeulen[113], with 20 closed bugs[114]  
 * Alastair Tse[115], with 20 closed bugs[116]  
 * Martin Holzer[117], with 16 closed bugs[118]  
 * Nicholas Jones[119], with 13 closed bugs[120]  
 * The KDE Team[121], with 10 closed bugs[122]  
 
 113. swift@gentoo.org
 114. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09&chfieldto=2003-05-15 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=swift%40gentoo.org
 115. liquidx@gentoo.org
 116. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09&chfieldto=2003-05-15 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=liquidx%40gentoo.org
 117. mholzer@gentoo.org
 118. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09&chfieldto=2003-05-15 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=mholzer%40gentoo.org
 119. carpaski@gentoo.org
 120. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09&chfieldto=2003-05-15 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=carpaski%40gentoo.org
 121. kde@gentoo.org
 122. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09&chfieldto=2003-05-15 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=kde%40gentoo.org

  Sven Vermeulen[122] was overlooked in last week's rankings. With 22 
closed bugs, he should have been ranked first.     
New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs this 
week are: 
 
 * Robert Coie[123], with 16 new bugs[124]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[125], with 12 new bugs[126]  
 * The XFree Team[127], with 12 new bugs[128]  
 * Jay Pfeifer[129], with 9 new bugs[130]  
 * The x86-Kernel Team[131], with 8 new bugs[132]  
 
 123. rac@gentoo.org
 124. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09 
&chfieldto=2003-05-15&=&assigned_to=rac%40gentoo.org
 125. azarah@gentoo.org
 126. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09 
&chfieldto=2003-05-15&=&assigned_to=azarah%40gentoo.org
 127. xfree@gentoo.org
 128. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09 
&chfieldto=2003-05-15&=&assigned_to=xfree%40gentoo.org
 129. pfeifer@gentoo.org
 130. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09 
&chfieldto=2003-05-15&=&assigned_to=pfeifer%40gentoo.org
 131. x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 132. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-09 
&chfieldto=2003-05-15&=&assigned_to=x86-kernel%40gentoo.org

==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Setting the Hardware Clock
 
This weeks tip shows you how to set the hardware clock on your Gentoo 
Linux box with the command hwclock. 
 
Setting the hardware clock is especially useful in case you have clock 
problems. If you experience a clock that is losing or gaining a lot of 
time each after a reboot, set hardware clock right, then remove 
/etc/adjtime. 
 
hwclock is located in /sbin/hwclock and you'll need to be root to use it. 
Without any options, you'll see your current hardware clock setting. By 
using the --systohc option, you can set your hardware clock to your system 
clock. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
| Using hwclock                                                           |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|Viewing hardware clock                                                   |
|# hwclock                                                                |
|Setting the hardware clock to system time                                |
|# hwclock --systohc                                                      |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are many other options available for hwclock, see man hwclock for 
more information.    

===============================
10. Quote/Signature of the week
===============================
  
This week's featured quote actually originated before we started this new 
section, but still deserves to be mentioned: "I've got this feeling, 
shared by others I think, that XML is a hammer and everyone's looking for 
nail-like objects." (Joseph Carter in a discussion[133] about an init 
replacement.)

 133. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/8422/
 
Nothing against XML though, we happily use it for bringing the GWN to you! 
It's just that the hype gets a little annoying from time to time... 
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 
 * none this week 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * none this week 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[134].

 134. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[135] and help make GWN better.

 135. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[136] 
 * English[137] 
 * German[138] 
 * French[139] 
 * Japanese[140] 
 * Italian[141] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[142] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[143] 
 * Russian[144] 
 * Spanish[145] 
 * Turkish[146] 
 
 136. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 137. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 138. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 139. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 140. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 141. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 142. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 143. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 144. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 145. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 146. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml
  
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brice Burgess <nesta@iceburg.net> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Peter Sharp <mail@psharp.uklinux.net> - Contributor
Kim Tingkaer <kim@thinkit.dk> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Bernieke <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter Ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Daniel Ketel <kage-chan@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Andy Hunne <andy@billydpro.com> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <gustavo@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Ricardo Jorge Louro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Ricardo Nogueira <R.Nogueira@records.usyd.edu.au> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Sergey Kuleshov <infapx@yandex.ru> - Russian Translation
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translation
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Pablo Pita Leira <pablo.leira@pitagoral.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Tirant <tirant@menta.net> - Spanish Translation
Jaime Freire <jfreire@ya.com> - Spanish Translation
Lucas Sallovitz <krusty_ar@yahoo.com> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation

