---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of August 18th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Gentoo migrates to a more robust DNS infrastructure 
 * More photos from LWE
    
Gentoo migrates to a more robust DNS infrastructure
---------------------------------------------------
  
Recently, Gentoo Technologies switched from running in-house DNS servers 
to using outsourced DNS service powered by UltraDNS[1]. This new 
outsourcing relationship offers Gentoo a more reliable, scalable DNS 
infrastructure and allows us to spend more time developing Gentoo Linux 
and less time administering infrastructure servers. 

 1. http://www.ultradns.com
 
In addition, UltraDNS offers us several new features and capabilities 
previously unavailable in our BIND name server environment. These features 
include SiteBacker[2] and DirectionalDNS[3]. Gentoo is currently using 
SiteBacker to ensure that users are always able to access 
www.gentoo.org[4], which currently comprises four servers. When one server 
goes down, such as for planned maintenance, SiteBacker automatically 
redirects client requests to one of the other three servers, minimizing 
disruptions to our users. 

 2. http://www.ultradns.com/services/sitebacker.html
 3. http://www.ultradns.com/services/ddns.html
 4. http://www.gentoo.org
 
Gentoo is also currently experimenting with DirectionalDNS as a means of 
offering targeted responses to DNS queries for rsync.gentoo.org. Based 
upon the success of this test, we will be looking to expand the use of 
DirectionalDNS to other domains as well. 
 
UltraDNS servers currently respond to nearly 5 million Gentoo-related DNS 
queries per month, and their service and support have been exceptional 
throughout. We'd like to take this opportunity to thank UltraDNS for their 
support of the Gentoo Linux project. 
    
More photos from LWE
--------------------
  
Figure 1.1: Kevyn Shortell at LWE 2003
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030818_trance.jpg
 
Gentoo Linux developer Kevyn Shortell[5] has put up more photos from Linux 
World Expo 2003 here[6] on his site, as well as letting us know that the 
PPC team had a PowerMac G4, an iBook and a Total Impact Briq, not an iBook 
and a PowerMac G3, as we said in last week's newsletter. At time of 
writing, Kevyn hasn't yet put up captions or thumbnails or captions, and 
the page is 11MB including images, so surf on down there at your own risk. 
:-) Thanks to Kevyn for putting up the photos and pointing out the error. 

 5. trance@gentoo.org
 6. http://penguinppc.org/~kevyn/stuff/LWE/
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: gentoo-sources 
 * GLSA: gnupg 
    
GLSA: gentoo-sources
--------------------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
"The route cache implementation in Linux 2.4, and the Netfilter IP 
conntrack module, allows remote attackers to cause a denial of service 
(CPU consumption) via packets with forged source addresses that cause a 
large number of hash table collisions." 
 
"The ioperm system call in Linux kernel 2.4.20 and earlier does not 
properly restrict privileges, which allows local users to gain read or 
write access to certain I/O ports." 
 
"A race condition in the way env_start and env_end pointers are 
initialized in the execve system call and used in fs/proc/base.c on Linux 
2.4 allows local users to cause a denial of service (crash)."
 
 * Severity: Critical - multiple vulnerabilities. 
 * Packages Affected: <gentoo-sources-2.4.20-r6 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge gentoo-sources; emerge clean. After 
that, compile, install and reboot your computer to complete the upgrade. 
 * GLSA Announcement[7] 
 7. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106086565405212&w=2
    
GLSA: semi
----------
  
"The (1) semi MIME library 1.14.5 and earlier, and (2) wemi 1.14.0 and 
possibly other versions, allows local users to overwrite arbitrary files 
via a symlink attack on temporary files."
 
 * Severity: Medium - insecure temporary files creation. 
 * Packages Affected: <semi-1.14.5-r1 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge semi, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[8] 
 8. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106093078132472&w=2
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted in the past week: 
 
 * KDE Security Advisory: Konqueror Referer Leaking Website Authentication 
Credentials[9] 
 * SuSE Kernel security update for networking code[10] 
 9. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26673
 10. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26507
    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
User stories is on hiatus this week. Remember to send us[11] your bizarre, 
hilarious, or incredible Gentoo stories so they can be featured here! 

 11. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Nick Hadaway
 
Figure 4.1: Nick Hadaway
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030818_raker.jpg
 
This week, we are featuring Nick Hadaway[12] (raker), a very active and 
prolific developer. Nick started working on Gentoo in early 2002, 
initially taking responsibility for maintaining most of the packages in 
/net-mail, and a few other packages. He has now expanded that role into 
work with /media-*, /net-ftp, Windowmaker and LDAP packages. Apart from 
the usual dev duties of maintaining ebuilds, Nick contributes C and C++ 
code patches and testing. He perceives his primary role as dealing with 
bugs by "listening to what users want and mak[ing] their wish a reality", 
if he can.

 12. raker@gentoo.org
 
Some years ago, Nick began working on his own Linux source-based distro 
(Give Me Some Linux). His idea will sound familiar: using shell-scripts 
and higher-level languages to automate package installation from source. 
Upon discovering Gentoo, Nick abandoned the increasingly complex task of 
maintaining his distro, because "Gentoo filled [his] every desire", and 
because of his delight in its distinction from Red Hat. He promptly made a 
point to begin contributing to the Gentoo project. Over the past two 
years, Nick has earned the respect of his peers as an effective and able 
contributer.
 
Nick works as a computer consultant in Chicago, and occasionally 
moonlights as a manager/jack-of-all-trades for his mother's restaurant 
near Milwaukee. He has an additional night job as a rock musician in 
Madison, WI. He currently is in the process of maintaining or establishing 
residences in all three cities. He studied Electrical Engineering and 
Music Performance at the University of Wisconsin - Madison and has taken 
Computer Science courses at the University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee.
 
When not patching bugs or dealing with pizza (insert obligatory Hiro 
Protagonist reference here), he is usually creating music. He plays 
trumpet, bass and drums - even contributing vocals. He enjoys hard-core 
and "real techno" and was active in the rave scene when it was a little 
more current. He enjoys clubs and parties and will often travel a fair 
distance to attend a significant one. 
 
Nick uses an aging PII-450 at home, and a variety of boxen in other 
places. The first app he launches is the appropriately retro "xterm -bg 
black -fg green". He uses Windowmaker as his WM, and Pine or SquirrelMail 
for mail. He concluded our interview by reminding us that "Gentoo is ... 
FNORD!".
   
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Gentoo Forums Now With Italian User Interface
 
Forum moderatrice Brandy[13] announced on Thursday that Italian has been 
added as an interface language for the Gentoo Forums. Besides English and 
now Italian, available board languages include Dutch, French, German, 
Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish. Users who wish to see the menu 
texts in their native language can switch the default in their profile[14].

 13. 
 14. 
 
 * La nuova lingua del forum Ã¨... [14] 
Yet Another Portage Debate
 
There were times when the Forums went weeks without someone asking why 
Portage isn't rewritten in C++, but this week was clearly not one of them. 
Check this thread for an assessment of this and other proposed variations 
to Gentoo's package management technology:
 
 * Portage - the future?[15] 
 15. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=75060
 
Xvnc Terminal Server Installation Guide, Diskless Gentoo Installation
 
On occasion, tutorials about things that are not yet covered by the 
general documentation are being donated by Forum users. This week 
lines[16] explains the procedure for setting up a VNC server that 
automatically spawns sessions when someone is connecting to it, a clever 
way to prevent having to start a new VNC server for each user. 
Contributions like that can lead to more than just 15 minutes of fame: 
Another installation guide posted by Swiss.Mage[17] back in June, this one 
talking about a diskless Gentoo installation, must have been so convincing 
that it ascended to be a chapter of the official Alternative Install Guide 
last week:

 16. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=25907
 17. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=17086

 * How to turn your box into a Xvnc Terminal Server[18] 
 * My Gentoo diskless installation howto[19] 
 * Alternative Installation Guide (Chapter 6)[20] 
 18. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=72893
 19. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=54293
 20. http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/altinstall.xml#doc_chap6

gentoo-user
-----------
 
Disabling Anti-Aliasing in Evolution 
 
For many XFree86 Linux users, the benefits of anti-aliasing often come 
down to personal preference. Some like it, some do not. Unfortuantely, 
there's still not a global method of controlling AA in X due to the 
modular structure of Linux in general. Some gentoo-user contributors 
offered some creative and clever solutions in this  post [21] that could 
be used elsewhere as well. 

 21. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
0030812221731.53305a76.dhruba%40codewordt.co.uk%3E
 
Console Framebuffers and Nvidia drivers 
 
Gentoo user a_k_b was having problems using a Linux VGA framebuffer 
console along with Nvidia's accelerated XFree86 drivers. The thread that 
followed offered some helpful suggestions to get him back on track. Thread 
 here [22] . 

 22. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
0030810203732.009da545.a_k_b%40web.de%3E
 
Donations to Gentoo 
 
Donating to the Gentoo project is a great way to help our favorite distro 
get even better. Gentoo-user list member Tom Wesley posted a simple 
question asking where the donations "go". It may have not been the most 
liked thread on the list this week, but it was definitely the largest. 
Read it  here [23] . 

 23. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
00308142213.35578.tawesley%40yahoo.com%3E
   
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Canada: Adelie Linux - Gentoo Single System Image Project
 
A little sidelined by other news surrounding Gentoo's Linuxworld Expo 
(LWE) involvement two weeks ago, the Gentoo Cluster Project certainly 
deserves more attention. After all, the remote cluster system that showed 
graphics rendering with a parallel version of POVRAY at the booth in San 
Francisco was proof for an exceptionally well done collaboration between 
academics, corporate backers and Gentoo developers: The driving force 
behind it all is an initiative known as Adelie Linux[24], part of the 
University of Montreal's Center for Research on Computation and its 
Applications (CERCA[25]), an institute specializing in parallel and 
distributed multi-processor systems. When CERCA's High Performance 
Computing Group needed an environment for their own Beowulf systems, they 
chose Gentoo Linux "because it is a young, innovative, and very well 
designed distribution that give their users a great deal of flexibility, a 
clear upgrade path and a very high level of hardware optimization, which 
makes it especially attractive for all kind of high performance 
applications". A local IT-solutions firm, Cyberlogic[26], joined CERCA in 
conducting the Single System Image project that is now fully operational, 
running on the university's own and an external industrial Beowulf[27]. 
According to Cyberlogic, the Adelie/SSI cluster management system allows 
for a centralization of all operations on the server, providing a single 
point of control for the whole distributed environment, offering a 
performance increase of up to 30%, easier administration and expansion, 
fast bootup and enhanced robustness. Cyberlogic's complete cluster 
solutions, based on Gentoo and Adelie, are available with processors 
ranging from Xeon and Pentium 4 to Athlon MP/XP, and - thanks to Olivier 
CrÃªte[28]'s AMD 64 port of Gentoo - even Opteron CPUs.

 24. http://www.cerca.umontreal.ca/hpc/en/projects/adelie/faq.html
 25. http://www.cerca.umontreal.ca/hpc/en/projects/adelie/faq.html
 26. http://www.cyberlogic.ca
 27. http://www.cerca.umontreal.ca/hpc/en/projects/clusters/index.html
 28. tester@gentoo.org
 
Germany: Interview with Gentoo PPC Lead Developer Pieter van den Abeele
 
The German online Linux magazine PPCNUX (obviously focusing on Linux for 
the Macintosh platform) has conducted an interview with Pieter van den 
Abeele, lead developer for Gentoo PPC. Pieter describes his involvement in 
producing a Gentoo LiveCD aiming for bootability on every single Macintosh 
out there, and has a lot to say about how Gentoo differentiates from other 
Linuces for the PowerPC, about the MetaPkg project[29] porting Portage to 
Mac OS X and other aspects of Gentoo Linux development for the most 
popular non-x86 platform. Difficult to overlook is also his call for help: 
developers who would like to offer time, expertise and possibly hardware 
to expand Gentoo PPC to hardware from Eyetech (AmigaOne), Genesi 
(PegasosPPC), IBM (RS/6000) and oldworld Macintoshs should contact him 
right away[30]. No need to be afraid to click on the link to the magazine 
if you don't speak German, by the way: They decided to publish the 
interview[31] in English. 

 29. http://www.metapkg.org
 30. pvdabeele@gentoo.org
 31. http://www.ppcnux.de/modules.php?name=News&file=article&sid=2131
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
two weeks:
----------
  
 * app-admin/aide: AIDE (Advanced Intrusion Detection Environment) is a 
replacement for Tripwire[32] 
 * app-admin/ufed: Gentoo Linux USE flags editor[33] 
 * app-benchmarks/stress: Imposes stressful loads on different aspects of 
the system.[34] 
 * app-editors/jedit: Programmer's editor written in Java[35] 
 * app-editors/kvim: KDE editor based on vim[36] 
 * app-editors/vi: The original VI package[37] 
 * app-editors/vile: VI Like Emacs -- yet another full-featured vi 
clone[38] 
 * app-emacs/apel: A Portable Emacs Library is a library for making 
portable Emacs Lisp programs.[39] 
 * app-emacs/emacs-w3m: emacs-w3m is interface program of w3m on 
Emacs.[40] 
 * app-emacs/flim: A library to provide basic features about message 
representation or encoding -- FLIM[41] 
 * app-emacs/limit: LIMIT - Library about Internet Message, for IT 
generation[42] 
 * app-emacs/mew: great MIME mail reader for Emacs/XEmacs[43] 
 * app-emacs/navi2ch: Navi2ch is navigator for 2ch which works under many 
Emacsen[44] 
 * app-emacs/semi: a library to provide MIME feature for GNU Emacs -- 
SEMI[45] 
 * app-games/asc: turn based strategy game designed in the tradition of 
the Battle Isle series[46] 
 * app-games/atanks: Worms and Scorched Earth-like game[47] 
 * app-games/doomlegacy: Doom legacy, THE doom port[48] 
 * app-games/halflife-adminmod: give people admin access (and a looooooot 
more)[49] 
 * app-games/kmuddy: MUD client for KDE[50] 
 * app-games/transfusion-bin: Blood remake[51] 
 * app-misc/gallery: Web based (PHP Script) photo album 
viewer/creator.[52] 
 * app-misc/kdirstat: KDirStat - nice KDE replacement to du command[53] 
 * app-misc/krename: KRename - a very powerful batch file renamer[54] 
 * app-misc/linux_logo:  Displays an ansi or an ascii logo and some system 
information.[55] 
 * app-office/openoffice: OpenOffice.org, a full office productivity 
suite.[56] 
 * app-office/qhacc: Personal Finance for QT[57] 
 * app-shells/dsh: DSH - Distributed Shell[58] 
 * app-text/a2ps: Any to PostScript filter[59] 
 * app-text/acroread: Adobe's PDF reader[60] 
 * app-text/kbedic: English <-> Bulgarian Dictionary[61] 
 * app-text/ptex: The ASCII publishing TeX distribution[62] 
 * dev-db/mysql: A fast, multi-threaded, multi-user SQL database 
server[63] 
 * dev-dotnet/ml-pnet: Mono C# libraries for Portable .NET[64] 
 * dev-dotnet/pnet: Portable .NET runtime, compiler, tools[65] 
 * dev-dotnet/pnetc: Portable .NET C library[66] 
 * dev-dotnet/pnetlib: Portable .NET C# library[67] 
 * dev-java/ant: Java-based build tool similar to 'make' that uses XML 
configuration files.[68] 
 * dev-java/java-sdk-docs: Javadoc for Java SDK version 1.4.2[69] 
 * dev-java/sun-jdk: Sun's J2SE Development Kit, version 1.4.2[70] 
 * dev-libs/dietlibc: A minimal libc[71] 
 * dev-libs/dvmysql: dvmysql provides a C++ interface to mysql[72] 
 * dev-libs/libdshconfig: Library for parsing dsh.style configuration 
files[73] 
 * dev-libs/memcached-api-php: PHP API for memcached[74] 
 * dev-libs/newt: redhat's newt windowing toolkit development files[75] 
 * dev-libs/progsreiserfs: library for accessing and manipulating reiserfs 
partitions[76] 
 * dev-libs/ucl: UCL: The UCL Compression Library[77] 
 * dev-util/calltree: A plugin for cachegrind that adds call-graph 
profiling, needed by kcachegrind[78] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo-activation: Gnome2 replacement for OAF[79] 
 * gnome-base/gnome: Meta package for the GNOME desktop, merge this 
package to install[80] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-session: the Gnome2 session manager[81] 
 * gnome-base/libgtop: library that proivdes top functionality to 
applications[82]  
 * gnome-extra/at-spi: This is the Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[83] 
 * gnome-extra/gconf-editor: An editor to the GNOME 2 config system[84] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-media: Multimedia related programs for the Gnome2 
desktop[85] 
 * gnome-extra/libgail-gnome: GAIL libraries for Gnome2 [86] 
 * kde-base/kdeadmin: KDE administration tools (user manager, etc.) 
 * kde-base/kdegames: KDE games (solitaire :-) 
 * kde-base/kdemultimedia: KDE multimedia apps: noatun, kscd, 
artsbuilder... 
 * kde-base/kdenetwork: KDE network apps: kmail, kppp, knode... 
 * kde-base/kdepim: KDE PIM (Personal Information Management) apps: 
korganizer... 
 * media-fonts/acroread-asianfonts: Asian Font Packs for Acrobat Reader 
5.0[87] 
 * media-fonts/urw-fonts: HOMEPAGE=""free good quality fonts gpl'd by 
URW++ 
 * media-gfx/w3mimgfb: Image viewer for w3m under frame buffer 
environment[88] 
 * media-libs/gst-plugins: Additional plugins for gstreamer - streaming 
media framework[89] 
 * media-libs/gstreamer: Streaming media framework[90] 
 * media-libs/libquicktime: A library based on quicktime4linux with 
extensions[91] 
 * media-libs/libvorbis: the Ogg Vorbis sound file format library[92] 
 * media-libs/netpbm: A set of utilities for converting to/from the netpbm 
(and related) formats[93] 
 * media-libs/stimg: Simple and tiny image loading library[94] 
 * media-libs/vflib: Japanese Vector Font library[95] 
 * media-libs/xine-lib: Core libraries for Xine movie player[96] 
 * media-plugins/xmms-realrandom: Real Random XMMS Plugin[97] 
 * media-sound/knob: Knob - The KDE Volume Control Applet[98] 
 * media-sound/sox: The swiss army knife of sound processing programs[99] 
 * media-tv/kwintv: a KDE application that allows you to watch 
television.[100] 
 * media-video/cinelerra: Cinelerra - Professional Video Editor[101] 
 * media-video/gxine: GTK+ Front-End for libxine[102] 
 * media-video/xine-ui: Skinned front end for Xine movie player.[103] 
 * net-dialup/mingetty: A compact getty program for virtual consoles only. 
 * net-dialup/speedtouch: GPL Driver for the Alcatel Speedtouch USB under 
*nix[104] 
 * net-ftp/ftpd: The netkit FTP server with optional SSL support[105] 
 * net-im/kopete: The KDE Instant Messenger[106] 
 * net-irc/xchat: X-Chat is a graphical IRC client for UNIX operating 
systems.[107] 
 * net-libs/libvncserver: library for creating vnc servers[108] 
 * net-mail/cmd5checkpw: A checkpassword compatible authentication program 
that used CRAM-MD5 authentication mode.[109] 
 * net-mail/evolution: A GNOME groupware application, a Microsoft Outlook 
workalike[110] 
 * net-mail/mozilla-thunderbird: Thunderbird Mail Client[111] 
 * net-mail/queue-fix: Qmail Queue Repair Application with support for 
big-todo[112] 
 * net-misc/gemsvnc: an X11 vnc server for remote control[113] 
 * net-misc/iputils: Network monitoring tools including ping and 
ping6[114] 
 * net-misc/ntp: Network Time Protocol suite/programs[115] 
 * net-misc/smb4k: Smb4K is a SMB share browser for KDE 3.1.x.[116] 
 * net-misc/tsclient: GTK2 frontend for rdesktop[117] 
 * net-misc/whois: improved Whois Client[118] 
 * net-p2p/gift: A OpenFT, Gnutella and FastTrack p2p network client[119] 
 * net-p2p/giftcurs: A ncurses frontend to the giFT (OpenFT) daemon[120] 
 * net-p2p/giftoxic: A GTK+2 giFT frontend[121] 
 * net-p2p/giftui: A GTK+2 giFT frontend[122] 
 * net-wireless/kismet: Kismet is a 802.11b wireless network sniffer.[123] 
 * net-www/mozilla: The Mozilla Web Browser[124] 
 * net-www/w3m-m17n: Multilingual text based WWW browser[125] 
 * sec-policy/selinux-bind: SELinux policy for BIND 
 * sec-policy/selinux-ntp: SELinux policy for the network time protocol 
daemon 
 * sec-policy/selinux-portmap: SELinux policy for portmap 
 * sec-policy/selinux-privoxy: SELinux policy for privoxy 
 * sys-apps/busybox: Utilities for rescue and embedded systems[126] 
 * sys-apps/coreutils: Standard GNU file utilities (chmod, cp, dd, dir, 
ls...), text utilities (sort, tr, head, wc..), and shell utilities 
(whoami, who,...)[127] 
 * sys-apps/di: Disk Information Utility[128] 
 * sys-apps/fakeroot: Run commands in an environment faking root 
privileges[129] 
 * sys-apps/file: Program to identify a file's format by scanning binary 
data for patterns[130] 
 * sys-apps/hwdata-knoppix: data hwsetup program[131] 
 * sys-apps/hwsetup: Hardware setup program[132] 
 * sys-apps/kudzu: Red Hat Hardware detection tools[133] 
 * sys-apps/mdadm: An extremely useful tool for running RAID systems - it 
can be used as a replacement for the raidtools, or as a supplement.[134] 
 * sys-apps/netkit-base: Old-style inetd[135] 
 * sys-apps/parted: Create, destroy, resize, check, copy partitions and 
file systems[136] 
 * sys-apps/qtparted: QtParted is a nice Qt partition tool for Linux[137] 
 * sys-apps/raidtools: Linux RAID 0/1/4/5 utilities[138] 
 * sys-apps/star: An enhanced (world's fastest) tar, as well as enhanced 
mt/rmt[139] 
 * sys-apps/xinetd: Xinetd is a powerful replacement for inetd, with 
advanced features[140] 
 * sys-devel/distcc: a program to distribute compilation of C code across 
several machines on a network[141] 
 * sys-kernel/ac-sources: Full sources for Alan Cox's Linux kernel 
 * sys-kernel/hppa-sources:  Full sources for the Linux kernel with patch 
for hppa[142] 
 * sys-kernel/hppa-sources-dev:  Full sources for the Linux kernel with 
patch for hppa[143] 
 * sys-kernel/ksymoops: Utility to decode a kernel oops, or other kernel 
call traces.[144] 
 * sys-kernel/mm-sources: Full sources for the development linux kernel 
with Andrew Morton's patchset 
 * sys-libs/glibc: GNU libc6 (also called glibc2) C library[145] 
 * sys-libs/pam: Pluggable Authentication Modules[146] 
 * sys-libs/pwdb: Password database[147] 
 * x11-base/xfree: Xfree86: famous and free X server[148] 
 * x11-base/xfree-drm: Xfree86 Kernel DRM modules[149] 
 * x11-themes/knifty: A native KWin window decoration for KDE 3.x.[150] 
 32. http://aide.sourceforge.net/
 33. http://www.gentoo.org
 34. http://weather.ou.edu/~apw/projects/stress
 35. http://www.jedit.org
 36. http://www.freehackers.org/${PN}
 37. http://ex-vi.berlios.de/
 38. http://www.clark.net/pub/dickey/vile/vile.html
 39. http://cvs.m17n.org/elisp/APEL/
 40. http://emacs-w3m.namazu.org
 41. http://cvs.m17n.org/elisp/FLIM/
 42. http://pure.fan.gr.jp/simm/?MyWorks
 43. http://www.mew.org/
 44. http://navi2ch.sourceforge.net/
 45. http://cvs.m17n.org/elisp/SEMI/index.html.ja.iso-2022-jp
 46. http://www.asc-hq.org/
 47. http://atanks.sourceforge.net/
 48. http://legacy.newdoom.com/
 49. http://www.adminmod.org/
 50. http://www.kmuddy.org/index.php
 51. http://www.planetblood.com/qblood/
 52. http://gallery.sourceforge.net/
 53. http://kdirstat.sourceforge.net/
 54. http://www.krename.net/
 55. http://www.deater.net/weave/vmwprod/linux_logo/
 56. http://www.openoffice.org/
 57. http://qhacc.sourceforge.net
 58. http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/software/downloads/
 59. http://www-inf.enst.fr/~demaille/a2ps/
 60. http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/
 61. http://kbedic.sourceforge.net
 62. http://www.ascii.co.jp/pb/ptex/
 63. http://www.mysql.com/
 64. http://www.dotgnu.org/
 65. http://www.dotgnu.org/
 66. http://www.dotgnu.org/
 67. http://www.dotgnu.org/
 68. http://ant.apache.org
 69. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/download.html
 70. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/download.html
 71. http://www.fefe.de/dietlibc/
 72. http://tinf2.vub.ac.be/~dvermeir/software/dv/dvmysql/html/
 73. http://www.netfort.gr.jp/~dancer/software/downloads/
 74. http://www.danga.com/memcached/
 75. http://www.redhat.com
 76. http://reiserfs.linux.kiev.ua/
 77. http://www.oberhumer.com/opensource/ucl/
 78. http://kcachegrind.sourceforge.net/
 79. http://www.gnome.org/
 80. http://www.gnome.org/
 81. http://www.gnome.org/
 82. http://www.gnome.org/
 83. http://www.gnome.org/
 84. http://www.gnome.org/
 85. http://www.prettypeople.org/~iain/gnome-media/
 86. http://www.gnome.org/
 87. http://www.adobe.com/prodindex/acrobat/readstep.html
 88. http://homepage3.nifty.com/slokar/fb/w3mimg.html
 89. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 90. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 91. http://libquicktime.sourceforge.net/
 92. http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis/index.html
 93. http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/
 94. http:///homepage3.nifty.com/slokar/fb/
 95. http://typehack.aial.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/VFlib/
 96. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 97. http://kingleo.home.pages.at/index.php?show=/development/stuff
 98. http://lichota.net/~krzysiek/projects/knob/
 99. http://sox.sourceforge.net
 100. http://www.kwintv.org
 101. http://heroinewarrior.com/cinelerra.php3
 102. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 103. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 104. http://speedtouch.sf.net/
 105. http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/~dholland/computers/netkit.html
 106. http://kopete.kde.org/
 107. http://www.xchat.org/
 108. http://libvncserver.sourceforge.net/
 109. http://members.elysium.pl/brush/cmd5checkpw/
 110. http://www.ximian.com
 111. http://www.mozilla.org/projects/thunderbird/
 112. http://www.netmeridian.com/e-huss/
 113. http://www.elilabs.com/~rj/gemsvnc/
 114. ftp://ftp.inr.ac.ru/ip-routing
 115. http://www.ntp.org/
 116. http://smb4k.berlios.de/
 117. http://www.gnomepro.com/tsclient
 118. http://www.linux.it/~md/software/
 119. http://gift.sourceforge.net
 120. http://giftcurs.sourceforge.net/
 121. http://giftoxic.sourceforge.net/
 122. http://giftui.tuxfamily.org/
 123. http://www.kismetwireless.net/
 124. http://www.mozilla.org
 125. http://www2u.biglobe.ne.jp/~hsaka/w3m/
 126. http://www.busybox.net
 127. http://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/
 128. http://www.gentoo.com/di/
 129. http://joostje.op.het.net/fakeroot/index.html
 130. ftp://ftp.astron.com/pub/file/
 131. http://www.knopper.net
 132. http://www.knopper.net
 133. http://www.knopper.net
 134. http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~neilb/source
 135. ftp://ftp.uk.linux.org/pub/linux/Networking/netkit/
 136. http://www.gnu.org/software/parted
 137. http://qtparted.sourceforge.net
 138. http://people.redhat.com/mingo/raidtools/
 139. 
http://www.fokus.gmd.de/research/cc/glone/employees/joerg.schilling/private
/star.html
 140. http://www.xinetd.org
 141. http://distcc.samba.org/
 142. http://www.kernel.org/ http://www.gentoo.org/ http://parisc-linux.org
 143. http://www.kernel.org/ http://www.gentoo.org/ http://parisc-linux.org
 144. http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/kernel/ksymoops/
 145. http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/libc.html
 146. http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/libs/pam/
 147. http://www.firstlinux.com/cgi-bin/package/content.cgi?ID=6886
 148. http://www.xfree.org
 149. http://www.xfree.org
 150. http://www.kdelook.org/content/show.php?content=7290

 
Total categories: 96 (1 category added in the last week)
 
Total packages: 6295 (311 packages added in the last week)
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[151]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Between 08 August 2003 and 14 August 2003, activity on 
the site has resulted in: 

 151. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 414 new bugs during this period 
 * 286 bugs closed or resolved during this period 
 * 8 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3605 currently open bugs: 94 are labeled 'blocker', 156 are labeled 
'critical', and 287 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs during this period 
are: 
 
 * Gentoo KDE team[152], with 21 closed bugs[153]  
 * Sven Vermeulen[154], with 19 closed bugs[155]  
 * Gentoo Linux Gnome Desktop Team[156], with 19 closed bugs[157]  
 * Gentoo Games[158], with 17 closed bugs[159]  
 * Robin Johnson[160], with 15 closed bugs[161]  
 152. kde@gentoo.org
 153. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08-14&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=kde@gentoo.org
 154. swift@gentoo.org
 155. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08-14&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=swift@gentoo.org
 156. gnome@gentoo.org
 157. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08-14&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org
 158. games@gentoo.org
 159. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08-14&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=games@gentoo.org
 160. robbat2@gentoo.org
 161. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08-14&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=robbat2@gentoo.org

    
New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs during 
this period are: 
 
 * Martin Schlemmer[162], with 16 new bugs[163]  
 * Portage team[164], with 12 new bugs[165]  
 * Bob Johnson[166], with 10 new bugs[167]  
 * Daniel Robbins[168], with 10 new bugs[169]  
 * X86 Kernel Team[170], with 9 new bugs[171]  
 * Gentoo Linux Gnome Desktop Team[172], with 9 new bugs[173]  
 162. azarah@gentoo.org
 163. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08
-14&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org
 164. dev-portage@gentoo.org
 165. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08
-14&assigned_to=dev-portage@gentoo.org
 166. livewire@gentoo.org
 167. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08
-14&assigned_to=livewire@gentoo.org
 168. drobbins@gentoo.org
 169. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08
-14&assigned_to=drobbins@gentoo.org
 170. x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 171. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08
-14&assigned_to=x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 172. gnome@gentoo.org
 173. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-08&chfieldto=2003-08
-14&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org

    
==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Creating ScreenShots with import 
 
This week's tip shows you how to take screenshots of your desktop or 
individual windows using the import command. import is provided by 
ImageMagick so you'll need to install it from portage. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
| Getting ImageMagick                                                     |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# emerge media-gfx/imagemagick                                           |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Now that ImageMagick is installed, you can use it to take screenshots of 
either your entire desktop, parts of it, or just individual windows. 
First, let's look at taking a screenshot of your entire desktop and saving 
it as the file desktop.png. 
 
Note:  To use other image formats such as jpg, simply specify that file 
extension and import will create it in that format (i.e. desktop.jpg). 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
| Desktop Screenshot                                                      |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% import -window root desktop.png                                        |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Next we'll look at taking a screenshot of just one window. To do this, use 
the import command and click on the window you want to capture. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.3:                                                       |
| Window Screenshot                                                       |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|First, specify the file to save                                          |
|% import gvim.png                                                        |
|Now click on your gvim window to take the screenshot                     |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
This should get you started but there are many other things you can do 
with import and ImageMagick. To see a list of the many options that can be 
passed to import, see the man page (man 1 import). 
   
========================================
10. Featured Quote/Signature of the Week
========================================
  
Featured Quote/Signature is on hiatus this week. If you see an interesting 
signature or hear an interesting quote in the web forums, mailing lists, 
IRC, or in a meatspace conversation with a fellow Gentooist, let us know 
at gwn-feedback@gentoo.org. 
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * none this week 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[174].

 174. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[175] and help make GWN better.

 175. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[176] 
 * English[177] 
 * German[178] 
 * French[179] 
 * Japanese[180] 
 * Italian[181] 
 * Polish[182] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[183] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[184] 
 * Russian[185] 
 * Spanish[186] 
 * Turkish[187] 
 176. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 177. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 178. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 179. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 180. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 181. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 182. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 183. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 184. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 185. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 186. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 187. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml

  
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brian Downey <bdowney@briandowney.net> - Contributor
Cal Evans <cal@calevans.com> - Contributor
Chris Gavin <gubbs@fudo.org> - Contributor
Luke Giuliani <cold_flame@email.com> - Contributor
Shawn Jonnet <shawn.jonnet@verizon.net> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gerrynjr@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
JoÃ£o Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo GonÃ§alves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
JosÃ© Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Galkin <gals_home@list.ru> - Russian Translator
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Alex Spirin <asp13@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Denis Zaletov <dzaletov@rambler.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
JesÃºs GarcÃ­a Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio GÃ³mez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation

