---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of September 9th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Second Gentoo BugDay a success 
    
Second Gentoo BugDay a success
------------------------------
  
Another smashing success, participants in this weeks BugDay, held on 
September 6, bravely squashed a total of 124 bugs. Only in its second 
month, BugDay atrracted a total of 171 unique bug hunters, with a record 
of 149 simultaneous attendees in #gentoo-bugs, surpassing last months 
inaugeral BugDay by a large margin (130 bug quashers participated last 
month). Among the crowd were many people eager to lend their expertise and 
learn from others. Users got to interact with Gentoo developers in a 
unique way, and some new potential developers were spotted. We'd like to 
thank everyone who came out and made this months BugDay a huge success, 
and we hope to see you next month: Same bug time, same bug channel! 
 
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: pam_smb 
 * GLSA: vmware 
 * GLSA: horde 
 * GLSA: eroaster 
 * GLSA: phpwebsite 
 * GLSA: mindi 
 * GLSA: gallery 
 * GLSA: atari800 
    
GLSA: pam_smb
-------------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
"If a long password is supplied, this can cause a buffer overflow which 
could be exploited to execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the 
process which invokes PAM services."
 
 * Severity: High - remote execute of code. 
 * Packages Affected: <pam_smb-2.0.0_rc5 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge pam_smb; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[1] 
 1. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106241793528217&w=2
    
GLSA: vmware
------------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
The previous GLSA 200308-03 was wrong when it stated that 
vmware-workstation-4.0.1-5289 would fix the problems described in the 
advisory.
 
 * Severity: High - local full host access. 
 * Packages Affected: <vmware-workstation-4.0.2.5592 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge vmware-workstation-4.0.2.5592>; 
emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[2] 
 2. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106242339501516&w=2
    
GLSA: horde
-----------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
"An attacker could send an email to the victim who ago use of HORDE MTA in 
order to push it to visit a website. The website in issue log all the 
accesses and describe in the particular the origin of every victim."
 
 * Severity: High - session hijacking. 
 * Packages Affected: <horde-2.2.4_rc2 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge horde; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[3] 
 3. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106242613904289&w=2
    
GLSA: eroaster
--------------
  
Previous eroaster versions allowwed local users to overwrite arbitrary 
files via a symlink attack on a temporary file that is used as a lockfile.
 
 * Severity: Medium - symlink attack. 
 * Packages Affected: <eroaster-2.1.0-r2 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge eroaster; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[4] 
 4. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106249757028467&w=2
    
GLSA: phpwebsite
----------------
  
phpwebsite contains an sql injection vulnerability in the calendar module 
which allows the attacker to execute sql queries. In addition phpwebsite 
is also vulnerable to XSS, more information can be found in the full 
advisory.
 
 * Severity: High - SQL Injection, DoS and XSS Vulnerabilities. 
 * Packages Affected: <phpwebsite-0.9.3_p1 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge phpwebsite; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[5] 
 5. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106249254924303&w=2

GLSA: mindi
-----------
  
Mindi creates files in /tmp which could allow local user to overwrite 
arbitrary files
 
 * Severity: Medium - insecure file creations. 
 * Packages Affected: <mindi-0.86 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge mindi; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[6] 
 6. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106249904429698&w=2
    
GLSA: gallery
-------------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
"Cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability in search.php of Gallery 1.1 
through 1.3.4 allows remote attackers to insert arbitrary web script via 
the searchstring parameter."
 
 * Severity: High - cross site scripting. 
 * Packages Affected: <gallery-1.3.4_p1 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge gallery; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[7] 
 7. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106250951606667&w=2
    
GLSA: atari800
--------------
  
atar800 contains a buffer overflow which could be used by an attacker to 
gain root privileges. Altough the atari800 package in Gentoo does not 
install any files suid root we encourage our users to upgrade.
 
 * Severity: Low - buffer overflow. 
 * Packages Affected: <atari800-1.3.0-r1 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge atari800; emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[8] 
 8. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106251162709180&w=2
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted in the past week: 
 
 * net-mail/exim[9] 
 9. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=27984

===============
3. User stories
===============
  
User stories is on hiatus this week. Remember to send us[10] your bizarre, 
hilarious, or incredible Gentoo stories so they can be featured here! 

 10. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Thomas Pedley
 
Figure 4.1: Thomas Pedley
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030908_shallax.jpg
 
This week's featured dev is Thomas Pedley[11] (shallax), who is singularly 
responsible for the most ironic of Gentoo ports: Gentoox[12] (Gentoo for 
the XBox). Thomas is the only official developer for the project, but he 
claims this reduces the number of developer conflicts. His 
responsibilities run the gamut through kernel hacking, user support, 
distro maintenance, building binary packages, dealing with legal issues, 
and maintaining the gentoox web site. Appropriately, 
gentoox.shallax.com[13] and forums.shallax.com[14] were recently moved to 
an XBox host.

 11. shallax@gentoo.org
 12. http://gentoox.shallax.com/
 13. http://gentoox.shallax.com
 14. http://forums.shallax.com
 
Thomas' work came to the attention of the Gentoo community with his 
post[15] to the forums in March. Although other people had managed to get 
Gentoo up and running on a modded XBox, Thomas was the first to put 
together a formal distribution and documentation - which has greatly 
facilitated the growth of Gentoo on the heavily subsidized Microsoft 
gaming platform. The idea of using the XBox as a cheap multimedia PC has 
been enthralling Linux fans for months. Our subject's proudest 
accomplishment came with the succesful hacking of the XBox's Cromwell bios 
to permit loading of a larger initrd file, and the subsequent cleaning up 
of the boot process in Gentoox. Thomas now runs two XBoxen: the 
continuously up web server and another that is, tragically, periodically 
taken down to play games with.

 15. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=44518
 
In addition to the XBoxen, Thomas runs a 1.8 GHz P4 desktop, and a 533 MHz 
Celeron server. He likes KDE, but uses the lower footprint WindowMaker 
when on an XBox. He is a bit of a messaging addict, launching Gaim and 
XChat when he first boots (or Trillian and mIRC if booting into the other 
OS). He first heard of Gentoo back in 2001, but was daunted by its 
learning curve until 2002 and completed the transition to Gentoo for his 
servers this year. His favorite applications are gcc and emerge, and 
prefers pico/nano as an editor. He does a lot of his development work 
using bash scripting, and chose to implement the Gentoox patch system 
(which works alongside portage for XBox implementations) in bash.
 
Thomas recently completed 6th Form at the Simon Balle school, and will 
start Computer Science studies at the University of Hertfordshire in a few 
weeks. He also works at a local supermarket in order to generate the funds 
he needs for acquiring XBoxen and maintaining his beloved Peugot 205. He 
lives in Hertfordshire, England, just outside London.
 
When asked for a favourite quote, Thomas offered a Beastie Boy lyric: 
"DIY, that means do it yourself - I don't sit around waiting for someone's 
help, I don't sit back and say good enough, I keep on striving, 
reinventing.", which seems quite appropriate. He also observed that 
"Gentoo is the most solid distribution I have had the pleasure of using, 
and the user base is friendly and willing to help each other out." He also 
wanted to take an opportunity to thank all those who have helped out with 
the Gentoox project - interested readers are directed to the Gentoox 
README to hear about their contributions.
   
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Gentoo on the Pegasos PPC
 
Being one of the rare Gentoo devs with a Pegasos G3/600 MHz at home, 
dholm[16] has succesfully Gentooified that particular non-Macintosh, yet 
PowerPC-based platform. The next LiveCD will contain an official build, 
but dholm's kernel is ready for testing by anyone who'd like to try their 
hands. In the same thread, PPC-lead-developer pvdabeel[17] has announced 
that Gentoo will run on the AmigaOne, too. 

 16. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=26973
 17. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=17163
 
 * Does Gentoo run on the Pegasos PPC ?[18]
 18. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=70326

Making an Effort
 
Besides browsing the overview of individual forums, people tend to look 
for topics via the "posts since last visit" link or input text strings in 
the quick search field related to whatever problem they have. One of the 
less popular features of the phpBB forum interface is a link located to 
the top right of the page that simply says: "View unanswered posts". At 
currently almost 10,000 of those, among a lot of garbage there's a much 
larger amount of newbie questions that went unanswered, sometimes because 
the title wasn't too clear, the problem too obscure, or maybe not very 
interesting to the regulars on board. Gentoomen, have you helped a newbie 
today? 
 
 * View unanswered posts[19]
 19. http://forums.gentoo.org/search.php?search_id=unanswered

gentoo-user
-----------
  
$100 UPSes for Linux 
 
For those of us that absolutely NEED to run Gentoo--electric service or 
not--an uninterruptable power supply could be just what you're looking 
for. Gentoo user Chip Marshall started the $100 Linux UPS Challenge to see 
if anyone knew of Linux-compatible UPSes that could be bought for roughly 
$100.  Read on [20] for all the great suggestions. 

 20. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3CN
DBBLGIKBJENLAMOLFHGOENODBAB.mknecht%40controlnet.com%3E
 
qpkg Tips 
 
Ever wondered which ebuild supplied a certain file on your hard drive? 
This thread from the -user list week offered up a quick and cool tip on 
qpkg to do just that. Check it out  here [21] . 

 21. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
0030901204053.8152%40balsam%3E
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
Gentoo Games.
 
Who said there weren't any games on linux? Well we definately prove them 
wrong here at Gentoo, with the number of games packages in app-games now 
outnumbering those in dev-perl! Break them up a little you say? Well 
you're too late! Mike Frysinger is a step[22] ahead of you! Have a look to 
see where the discussion went.

 22. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/11855/
 
Portage is your friend.
 
Although some of us are more than happy to just type in emerge myprogram, 
some people actually like to know how these things work. Grant Goodyear is 
one such person, who decided that a little walkthrough would be 
appropriate. Have a look here[23]. 

 23. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/11819/
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Japan: Gentoo Navi Log
 
Mamoru Komachi, better known as Usata[24], a Gentoo dev at large and 
maintainer of the pTeX package, has started a weblog that keeps track of 
new ebuilds and contains news and tidbits centered around the needs of 
Japanese Gentooists. Some of the more interesting recent developments 
already feature prominently on his page, including Botond Botyanszki's new 
Japanese input method im-ja or the new GTK2 variant of Sylpheed, for 
example. Best of all: the blog is open to audience participation, everyone 
willing to commit one or the other concise newsbit about Gentoo is welcome 
to add to the logbook. Check Usata's page[25] - only if your Japanese is 
up to the task, of course...

 24. usata@gentoo.org
 25. http://www.smalltown.ne.jp/~usata/gentoo/
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
two weeks:
----------
  
 * app-arch/file-roller: archive manager for GNOME[26] 
 * app-cdr/cdlabelgen: CD cover, tray card and envelope generator[27] 
 * app-crypt/gnupg: The GNU Privacy Guard, a GPL pgp replacement[28] 
 * app-doc/abs-guide: An advanced reference and a tutorial on bash shell 
scripting.[29] 
 * app-doc/howto-text: The LDP howtos, text format.[30] 
 * app-editors/gedit: A text editor for the Gnome2 desktop[31] 
 * app-editors/ne: ne is the nice editor, easy to use for the beginner and 
powerful for the wizard[32] 
 * app-editors/vim: Vi IMproved![33] 
 * app-emacs/mew: great MIME mail reader for Emacs/XEmacs[34] 
 * app-emacs/riece: Riece is a redisgn of Liece IRC client[35] 
 * app-emacs/wl: a mail/news reader supporting IMAP4rev1 for emacsen[36] 
 * app-emulation/epsxe: ePSXe Playstation Emulator[37] 
 * app-emulation/uae: An amiga emulator[38] 
 * app-emulation/wine: free implementation of Windows(tm) on Unix - CVS 
snapshot[39] 
 * app-emulation/xmame: Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator for X11[40] 
 * app-emulation/xmess: Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator for X11[41] 
 * app-games/americas-army: America's Army: Operations - military 
simulations by the U.S. Army to provide civilians with insights on 
soldiering[42] 
 * app-games/armagetron: armagetron: 3d tron lightcycles, just like the 
movie[43] 
 * app-games/asc: turn based strategy game designed in the tradition of 
the Battle Isle series[44] 
 * app-games/atlas: Chart Program to use with Flightgear Flight 
Simulator[45] 
 * app-games/attal: turn-based strategy game project[46] 
 * app-games/duke3d: port of the original DukeNukem 3D[47] 
 * app-games/excido: A fast paced action game[48] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod: The notorious fortune program[49] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-bofh-excuses: Excuses from Bastard Operator from 
Hell[50] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-calvin: Quotes from Calvin and Hobbes Comic 
Books[51] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-dubya: Quotes from George W. Bush[52] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-futurama: Quotes from the TV-Series 
-Futurama-[53] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-gentoo-dev: Fortune database of #gentoo-dev 
quotes[54] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-hitchhiker: Quotes from Hitchhikers Guide to the 
Galaxy[55] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-homer: Quotes from Homer Simpson[56] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-humorixfortunes: Extra fortune cookies for 
fortune[57] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-kernelcookies: A collection of funny lines from 
the Linux kernel[58] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-osfortune: Open sources fortune file[59] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-simpsons-chalkboard: Quotes from Bart Simpson's 
Chalkboard, shown at the opening of each Simpsons episode[60] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-smac: Quotes from the Alpha Centauri: Alien 
Crossfire tech tree[61] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-sp-fortunes: South Park Fortunes[62] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-starwars: Quotes from StarWars, The Empire 
Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi[63] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-tao: set of fortunes based on the 
Tao-Teh-Ching[64] 
 * app-games/greedy: fun little ncurses puzzle game[65] 
 * app-games/gtetrinet: Tetrinet Clone for GNOME 2[66] 
 * app-games/mirrormagic: a game like Deflektor (C 64) or Mindbender 
(Amiga)[67] 
 * app-games/monopd: server for atlantik games[68] 
 * app-games/nwn: Never Winter Nights[69] 
 * app-games/rocksndiamonds: A Boulderdash clone[70] 
 * app-games/sirius: A program for playing the game of othello[71] 
 * app-games/spacehulk: A boardgame in the world of Warhammer 40k[72] 
 * app-games/torcs: The Open Racing Car Simulator[73] 
 * app-games/unreal-tournament: Futuristic FPS[74] 
 * app-games/ut2003: Unreal Tournament 2003 - Sequel to the 1999 Game of 
the Year multi-player first-person shooter[75] 
 * app-games/wakkabox: A simple block-pushing game[76] 
 * app-games/xgalaga: Galaga game clone.[77] 
 * app-i18n/freewnn: Network-Extensible Kana-to-Kanji Conversion 
System[78] 
 * app-i18n/kinput2: A Japanese input server which supports the XIM 
protocol[79] 
 * app-i18n/scim: Smart Common Input Method (SCIM) is a Input Method (IM) 
development platform[80] 
 * app-i18n/scim-chinese: Smart Common Input Method (SCIM) Closed Source 
Pinyin Input Method[81] 
 * app-i18n/skk-jisyo-extra: Extra SKK dictionaries in plain text and cdb 
format[82] 
 * app-i18n/uim: UIM is a simple, secure and flexible input method 
library[83] 
 * app-misc/kdirstat: KDirStat - nice KDE replacement to du command[84] 
 * app-misc/magicpoint: an X11 based presentation tool[85] 
 * app-misc/welcome2l:  Welcome to Linux, ANSI login logo for Linux[86] 
 * app-misc/xosview: X11 operating system viewer[87] 
 * app-office/mdbtools: A set of libraries and utilities for reading 
Microsoft Access database (MDB) files[88] 
 * app-office/scribus: Desktop Publishing (DTP) and Layout program for 
Linux.[89] 
 * app-sci/bioperl: collection of tools for bioinformatics, genomics and 
life science research[90] 
 * app-sci/ksimus: KSimus is a KDE tool for simulation, automatization and 
visualization of technical processes.[91] 
 * app-sci/octave: GNU Octave is a high-level language (MatLab compatible) 
intended for numerical computations[92] 
 * app-sci/octave-forge: A collection of custom scripts, functions and 
extensions for GNU Octave[93] 
 * app-text/epstool: Creates or extracts preview images in EPS files, 
fixes bounding boxes,converts to bitmaps.[94] 
 * app-text/htmldoc: Convert HTML pages into a PDF document[95] 
 * app-text/tkinfo: Info Browser in TK[96] 
 * app-text/uudeview: uu, xx, base64, binhex decoder[97] 
 * dev-cpp/gtkmm: C++ interface for GTK+2[98] 
 * dev-db/mysql: A fast, multi-threaded, multi-user SQL database 
server[99] 
 * dev-db/tora: TOra - Toolkit For Oracle[100] 
 * dev-dotnet/mono: Mono runtime and class librarier, a C# 
compiler/interpreter[101] 
 * dev-dotnet/pnet: Portable .NET runtime, compiler, tools[102] 
 * dev-games/crystalspace: portable 3D Game Development Kit written in 
C++[103] 
 * dev-games/crystalspace-cvs: portable 3D Game Development Kit written in 
C++[104] 
 * dev-java/infobus: InfoBus enables dynamic exchange of data between 
JavaBeans component architecture.[105] 
 * dev-java/jad: Jad - the fast JAva Decompiler[106] 
 * dev-java/jaf: Sun's JavaBeans Activation Framework (JAF)[107] 
 * dev-java/java-config: Utility to change the Java Virtual Machine being 
used[108] 
 * dev-java/java-sdk-docs: Javadoc for Java SDK version 1.3.1[109] 
 * dev-java/javamail: A Java-based framework to build multiplatform mail 
and messaging applications.[110] 
 * dev-java/jdbc2-oracle: JDBC Drivers for Oracle[111] 
 * dev-java/jdbc3-oracle: JDBC 3.0 Drivers for Oracle[112] 
 * dev-java/jmf: The Java Media Framework API (JMF) enables audio, video 
and other time-based media to be added to Java applications and 
applets.[113] 
 * dev-java/jrockit: BEA WebLogic's J2SE Development Kit, version 8.1[114] 
 * dev-java/jython: Java Python implementation[115] 
 * dev-java/sun-jdk: Sun's J2SE Development Kit, version 1.4.2[116] 
 * dev-lang/tolua: a tool that simplifies the integration of C/C++ code 
with Lua[117] 
 * dev-libs/atk: Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[118] 
 * dev-libs/boost: Boost provides free peer-reviewed portable C++ source 
libraries.[119] 
 * dev-libs/elfutils: Libraries and utilities to handle compiled 
objects.[120] 
 * dev-libs/hdf5: HDF5 is a general purpose library and file format for 
storing scientific data.[121] 
 * dev-libs/libxslt: XSLT libraries and tools[122] 
 * dev-libs/qsa: QSA[123] 
 * dev-perl/DB_File: A Berkeley DB Support Perl Module[124] 
 * dev-perl/Net-SNMP: A SNMP Perl Module[125] 
 * dev-php/mod_php: Apache module for PHP 
 * dev-python/4Suite: Python tools for XML processing and 
object-databases.[126] 
 * dev-python/gnome-python: gnome-python[127] 
 * dev-python/pygtk: GTK+2 bindings for Python[128] 
 * dev-python/pykde: set of Python bindings for the KDE libs[129] 
 * dev-python/pyorbit: ORBit2 bindings for Python[130] 
 * dev-python/pyxml: A collection of libraries to process XML with 
Python.[131] 
 * dev-util/guile: Scheme interpreter[132] 
 * gnome-base/ORBit2: ORBit2 is a high-performance CORBA ORB[133] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo-activation: Gnome2 replacement for OAF[134] 
 * gnome-base/gconf: Gnome Configuration System and Daemon[135] 
 * gnome-base/gdm: GNOME2 Display Manager[136] 
 * gnome-base/gnome: Meta package for the GNOME desktop.[137] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-applets: Applets for the Gnome2 Desktop and Panel[138] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-desktop: Libraries for the gnome desktop that is not 
part of the UI[139] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-mime-data: MIME database for Gnome[140] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-panel: The Panel for Gnome2[141] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-session: the Gnome2 session manager[142] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-vfs: Gnome Virtual Filesystem[143] 
 * gnome-base/libbonobo: The GNOME CORBA framework[144] 
 * gnome-base/libbonoboui: User Interface part of Lib bonobo[145] 
 * gnome-base/libglade: GLADE is a interface builder[146] 
 * gnome-base/libgnome: Essential Gnome Libraries[147] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomecanvas: the Gnome 2 Canvas library[148] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeprint: Printer handling for Gnome[149] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeprintui: user interface libraries for gnome 
print[150] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeui: User interface part of libgnome[151] 
 * gnome-base/libgtop: library that proivdes top functionality to 
applications[152]  
 * gnome-base/librsvg: rendering svg library[153] 
 * gnome-base/nautilus: A filemanager for the Gnome2 desktop[154] 
 * gnome-extra/acme: GNOME tool to make use of the multimedia buttons 
present on most laptops and internet keyboards.[155] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-games: Games for the GNOME desktop[156] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-media: Multimedia related programs for the Gnome2 
desktop[157] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-system-monitor: Gnome System Monitor[158] 
 * gnome-extra/yelp: Help browser for Gnome2[159] 
 * kde-base/kdeadmin: KDE administration tools (user manager, etc.) 
 * media-fonts/artwiz-fonts: Artwiz Fonts[160] 
 * media-fonts/kochi-substitute: Kochi Japanese TrueType fonts with 
Wadalab Fonts[161] einfo "${HOMEPAGE} for details." 
 * media-fonts/mikachan-font: Mikachan Japanese TrueType fonts[162] 
 * media-fonts/mplus-fonts: mplus Japanese BDF FONTS[163] 
 * media-fonts/shinonome: Japanese bitmap fonts for X[164] 
 * media-gfx/eog: the Eye Of Gnome - Image Viewer and Cataloger for 
Gnome2[165] 
 * media-gfx/gliv: An image viewer that uses OpenGL[166] 
 * media-gfx/gnuplot: Quick and useful plotting program[167] 
 * media-gfx/gphoto2: free, redistributable digital camera software 
application[168] 
 * media-gfx/qiv: Quick Image Viewer[169] 
 * media-gfx/sane-frontends: Scanner Access Now Easy[170] 
 * media-libs/fontconfig: A library for configuring and customizing font 
access.[171] 
 * media-libs/gst-plugins: Additional plugins for gstreamer - streaming 
media framework[172] 
 * media-libs/gstreamer: Streaming media framework[173] 
 * media-libs/imlib2: Version 2 of an advanced replacement library for 
libraries like libXpm[174] 
 * media-libs/libemf: Library implementation of ECMA-234 API for the 
generation of enhanced metafiles.[175] 
 * media-libs/netpbm: A set of utilities for converting to/from the netpbm 
(and related) formats[176] 
 * media-libs/xine-lib: Core libraries for Xine movie player[177] 
 * media-plugins/xmms-crossfade: XMMS Plugin for crossfading, and 
continuous output.[178] 
 * media-sound/freqtweak: tool for FFT-based realtime audio spectral 
manipulation and display[179] 
 * media-sound/gnomeradio: A GNOME2 radio tuner[180] 
 * media-sound/streamripper: Extracts and records individual MP3 file 
tracks from shoutcast streams[181] 
 * media-tv/nxtvepg: receive and browse free TV programme listings via 
bttv for tv networks in Europe[182] 
 * media-video/cinelerra: Cinelerra - Professional Video Editor[183] 
 * media-video/mjpegtools: Tools for MJPEG video[184] 
 * media-video/mplayer: Media Player for Linux[185] 
 * media-video/transcode: video stream processing tool[186] 
 * media-video/xvattr: X11 XVideo Querying/Setting Tool from Ogle 
project[187] 
 * net-analyzer/libnasl: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(libnasl)[188] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus: A remote security scanner for Linux[189] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus-core: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(nessus-core)[190] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus-libraries: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(nessus-libraries)[191] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus-plugins: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(nessus-plugins)[192] 
 * net-analyzer/nmap: utility for network exploration or security 
auditing[193] 
 * net-analyzer/snort: Libpcap-based packet sniffer/logger/lightweight 
IDS[194] 
 * net-dialup/capi4k-utils: Capi4Linux Utils[195] 
 * net-dialup/pptpclient: Linux client for PPTP[196] 
 * net-firewall/shorewall: Full state iptables firewall[197] 
 * net-fs/ftpfs: A filesystem for mounting FTP volumes[198] 
 * net-im/centericq: A ncurses ICQ/Yahoo!/MSN/IRC/Jabber Client[199] 
 * net-im/imcom: Python commandline Jabber Client[200] 
 * net-im/licq: ICQ Client with v8 support[201]  
 * net-im/msnlib: A Python MSN messenger protocol library and client[202] 
 * net-libs/linc: A library to ease the writing of networked 
applications[203] 
 * net-mail/evolution: A GNOME groupware application, a Microsoft Outlook 
workalike[204] 
 * net-mail/f-prot: Frisk Software's f-prot virus scanner[205] 
 * net-mail/queue-fix: Qmail Queue Repair Application with support for 
big-todo[206] 
 * net-misc/atftp: Advanced TFTP implementation client/server[207] 
 * net-misc/gyach: GTK+-based Yahoo! chat client[208] 
 * net-misc/ltsp-core: LTSP - Linux Terminal Server Project[209] 
 * net-misc/pxes: PXES is a package for building thin clients using 
multiple types of clients 
 * net-misc/rsync: File transfer program to keep remote files into 
sync[210] 
 * net-misc/telnet-bsd: Telnet and telnetd ported from OpenBSD with IPv6 
support[211] 
 * net-misc/tftp-hpa: port of the OpenBSD TFTP server[212] 
 * net-misc/whois: improved Whois Client[213] 
 * net-p2p/gnunet: GNUnet is an anonymous, distributed, reputation based 
network.[214] 
 * net-p2p/xmule: wxWindows based client for the eDonkey/eMule/lMule 
network[215] 
 * net-www/apache: The Apache Web Server[216] 
 * net-www/mozilla-firebird: The Mozilla Firebird Web Browser[217] 
 * net-www/opera: Opera web browser.[218] 
 * net-www/straw: rss news aggregator[219] 
 * sys-apps/checkpolicy: SELinux policy compiler[220] 
 * sys-apps/cloop: Compressed filesystem loopback kernel module[221] 
 * sys-apps/coreutils: Standard GNU file utilities (chmod, cp, dd, dir, 
ls...), text utilities (sort, tr, head, wc..), and shell utilities 
(whoami, who,...)[222] 
 * sys-apps/dd_rescue: similar to dd but can copy from source with 
errors[223] 
 * sys-apps/debianutils: A selection of tools from Debian[224] 
 * sys-apps/hdparm: Utility to change hard drive performance 
parameters[225] 
 * sys-apps/policycoreutils: SELinux core utilites[226] 
 * sys-apps/portage: Portage ports system[227] 
 * sys-apps/smartmontools: control and monitor storage systems using the 
Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology System 
(S.M.A.R.T.)[228] 
 * sys-apps/xinetd: Xinetd is a powerful replacement for inetd, with 
advanced features[229] 
 * sys-apps/xmbmon: Mother Board Monitor Program for X Window System[230] 
 * sys-cluster/cppvm: CPPVM: A C++ Interface to PVM[231] 
 * sys-cluster/pvm: PVM: Parallel Virtual Machine[232] 
 * sys-devel/binutils: Tools necessary to build programs[233] 
 * sys-devel/distcc: a program to distribute compilation of C code across 
several machines on a network[234] 
 * sys-devel/gcc: The GNU Compiler Collection. Includes C/C++ and java 
compilers[235] 
 * sys-devel/hardened-gcc: transparent gcc compiler change for PaX/etdyn 
ASLR w/ propolice/SSP[236] 
 * sys-devel/prelink: Modifies executables so runtime libraries load 
faster[237] 
 * sys-kernel/mips-headers:  Linux-Mips CVS headers for MIPS-based 
machines[238] 
 * sys-kernel/mm-sources: Full sources for the development linux kernel 
with Andrew Morton's patchset 
 * sys-kernel/vanilla-sources: Full sources for the Gentoo Linux 
kernel[239] 
 * x11-base/xfree: Xfree86: famous and free X server[240] 
 * x11-libs/gtk+: Gimp ToolKit +[241] 
 * x11-libs/libwnck: A window navigation construction kit[242] 
 * x11-libs/pango: Text rendering and Layout library[243] 
 * x11-libs/qt: QT[244] 
 * x11-misc/icebgset: IceWM background editor[245] 
 * x11-misc/icets: IceWM Theme Editor[246] 
 * x11-misc/icewm-tools: Convenience package for IceWM control center and 
tools[247] 
 * x11-misc/shared-mime-info: The Shared MIME-info Database 
specification.[248] 
 * x11-misc/superkaramba: A version of Karamba with extra extensions 
in-built[249] 
 * x11-misc/x2vnc: Control a remote computer running VNC from X[250] 
 * x11-misc/xnview: XnView image viewer/converter[251] 
 * x11-plugins/wmclockmon: digital clock dockapp with three different 
styles.[252] 
 * x11-terms/gnome-terminal: The Gnome Terminal[253] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme: Gnome2 default icon themes[254] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-themes: A set of gnome2 themes, with sets for users 
with limited or low vision[255] 
 * x11-themes/gtk-engines: Theme Engines from GNOME including Pixmap, 
Metal, Raleigh, Redmond95, Raleigh and Notif 
 * x11-themes/mandrake-artwork: Mandrake's Galaxy theme for GTK1, GTK2, 
Metacity and KDE[256] 
 * x11-themes/thinkeramik: A cool kde style modified from keramik[257] 
 * x11-wm/fluxspace: Enhancements for workspace management within 
Fluxbox.[258] 
 * x11-wm/metacity: Small gtk2 WindowManager[259] 
 26. http://fileroller.sourceforge.net/
 27. http://www.aczone.com/tools/cdinsert
 28. http://www.gnupg.org/
 29. http://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html
 30. http://www.linuxdoc.org
 31. http://www.gnome.org/
 32. http://ne.dsi.unimi.it/
 33. http://www.vim.org
 34. http://www.mew.org/
 35. http://wiliki.designflaw.org/riece.cgi
 36. http://www.gohome.org/wl/index.html
 37. http://www.epsxe.com/
 38. http://www.freiburg.linux.de/~uae/
 39. http://www.winehq.com/
 40. http://x.mame.net/
 41. http://x.mame.net/
 42. http://www.americasarmy.com/
 43. http://armagetron.sourceforge.net/
 44. http://www.asc-hq.org/
 45. http://atlas.sourceforge.net/
 46. http://www.attal-thegame.org/
 47. http://icculus.org/projects/duke3d/
 48. http://icculus.org/excido/
 49. ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/games/amusements/fortune/
 50. http://www.stlim.net/staticpages/index.php?page=20020814005536450
 51. http://www.netmeister.org/misc.html
 52. http://dubya.seiler.us
 53. http://www.netmeister.org/misc.html
 54. http://oppresses.us/~avenj/index.html
 55. http://www.splitbrain.org/index.php?x=.%2FFortunes%2Fhitchhiker
 56. http://www.cs.indiana.edu/~crcarter/homer/homer.html
 57. http://i-want-a-website.com/about-linux/downloads.shtml
 58. http://unattached.i-no.de/software-misc.shtml
 59. http://www.dibona.com/opensources/index.shtml
 60. http://www.splitbrain.org/index.php?x=.%2FFortunes%2Fsimpsons
 61. http://homepages.ihug.com.au/~alana/
 62. http://eol.init1.nl/pub/linux/index.php
 63. http://www.splitbrain.org/index.php?x=.%2FFortunes%2Fstarwars
 64. http://aboleo.net/software/
 65. http://www.kotinet.com/juhamattin/linux/index.html
 66. http://gtetrinet.sourceforge.net/
 67. http://www.artsoft.org/mirrormagic/
 68. http://unixcode.org/monopd/
 69. http://nwn.bioware.com/downloads/linuxclient.html
 70. http://www.artsoft.org/rocksndiamonds/
 71. http://sirius.bitvis.nu/
 72. http://perso.enst.fr/~vinot/spacehulk/
 73. http://torcs.org/
 74. http://www.unrealtournament.com/
 75. http://www.unrealtournament2003.com/
 76. http://kenn.frap.net/wakkabox/
 77. http://rumsey.org/xgal.html
 78. http://www.freewnn.org/
 79. http://www.nec.co.jp/canna/
 80. http://www.turbolinux.com.cn/~suzhe/scim/
 81. http://www.turbolinux.com.cn/~suzhe/scim/
 82. http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/dic.html
 83. http://anthy.sourceforge.jp/
 84. http://kdirstat.sourceforge.net/
 85. http://www.mew.org/mgp/
 86. http://www.littleigloo.org/
 87. http://xosview.sourceforge.net
 88. http://sourceforge.net/projects/mdbtools/
 89. http://web2.altmuehlnet.de/fschmid/
 90. http://www.bioperl.org/
 91. http://ksimus.berlios.de/
 92. http://www.octave.org/
 93. http://octave.sourceforge.net/
 94. http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/gsview/epstool.htm
 95. http://www.easysw.com/htmldoc/
 96. http://math-www.uni-paderborn.de/~axel/tkinfo/
 97. http://www.fpx.de/fp/Software/UUDeview/
 98. http://gtkmm.sourceforge.net/
 99. http://www.mysql.com/
 100. http://www.globecom.se/tora/
 101. http://www.go-mono.com/
 102. http://www.dotgnu.org/
 103. http://crystal.sourceforge.net/
 104. http://crystal.sourceforge.net/
 105. http://java.sun.com/products/javabeans/infobus/index.html
 106. http://kpdus.tripod.com/jad.html
 107. http://java.sun.com/products/javabeans/glasgow/jaf.html
 108. http://www.gentoo.org/
 109. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.3/docs.html
 110. http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/index.html
 111. 
http://otn.oracle.com/software/tech/java/sqlj_jdbc/htdocs/jdbc817.html
 112. 
http://otn.oracle.com/software/tech/java/sqlj_jdbc/htdocs/jdbc9201.html
 113. http://java.sun.com/products/java-media/jmf/
 114. http://commerce.bea.com/downloads/weblogic_jrockit.jsp
 115. http://www.jython.org
 116. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/download.html
 117. http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/~celes/tolua/
 118. http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gap/
 119. http://www.boost.org
 120. http://www.redhat.com/
 121. http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/
 122. http://www.xmlsoft.org/
 123. http://www.trolltech.com/
 124. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/DB_File/${P}.readme
 125. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Net/${P}.readme
 126. http://www.4suite.org/
 127. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/gnome/
 128. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/
 129. http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/pykde/
 130. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/
 131. http://pyxml.sourceforge.net/
 132. http://www.gnu.org/software/guile/
 133. http://www.gnome.org/
 134. http://www.gnome.org/
 135. http://www.gnome.org/
 136. http://www.gnome.org/
 137. http://www.gnome.org/
 138. http://www.gnome.org/
 139. http://www.gnome.org/
 140. http://www.gnome.org/
 141. http://www.gnome.org/
 142. http://www.gnome.org/
 143. http://www.gnome.org/
 144. http://www.gnome.org/
 145. http://www.gnome.org/
 146. http://www.gnome.org/
 147. http://www.gnome.org/
 148. http://www.gnome.org/
 149. http://www.gnome.org/
 150. http://www.gnome.org/
 151. http://www.gnome.org/
 152. http://www.gnome.org/
 153. http://www.gnome.org/
 154. http://www.gnome.org/projects/nautilus/
 155. http://www.hadess.net/misc-code.php3
 156. http://www.gnome.org/
 157. http://www.prettypeople.org/~iain/gnome-media/
 158. http://www.gnome.org/
 159. http://www.gnome.org/
 160. http://fluxbox.sourceforge.net/docs/artwiz-fonts.php
 161. http://efont.sourceforge.jp/
 162. http://mikachan-font.com/
 163. http://mplus-fonts.sourceforge.jp/
 164. http://openlab.jp/efont/shinonome/
 165. http://www.gnome.org/
 166. http://gliv.tuxfamily.org
 167. http://www.gnuplot.info
 168. http://www.gphoto.org/
 169. http://www.klografx.net/qiv/
 170. http://www.mostang.com/sane/
 171. http://fontconfig.org/
 172. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 173. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 174. http://www.enlightenment.org/pages/imlib2.html
 175. http://libemf.sourceforge.net/
 176. http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/
 177. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 178. http://www.netcologne.de/~nc-eisenlpe2/xmms-crossfade/
 179. http://freqtweak.sourceforge.net
 180. http://mfcn.ilo.de/gnomeradio/
 181. http://streamripper.sourceforge.net/
 182. http://nxtvepg.sourceforge.net/
 183. http://heroinewarrior.com/cinelerra.php3
 184. http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/
 185. http://www.mplayerhq.hu/
 186. http://zebra.fh-weingarten.de/~transcode/
 187. http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/groups/dvd/
 188. http://www.nessus.org/
 189. http://www.nessus.org/
 190. http://www.nessus.org/
 191. http://www.nessus.org/
 192. http://www.nessus.org/
 193. http://www.insecure.org/nmap/
 194. http://www.snort.org/
 195. ftp://ftp.in-berlin.de/pub/capi4linux/
 196. http://pptpclient.sourceforge.net/
 197. http://www.shorewall.net
 198. http://ftpfs.sourceforge.net/
 199. http://konst.org.ua/eng/software/centericq/info.html
 200. http://imcom.floobin.cx
 201. http://www.licq.org/
 202. http://auriga.wearlab.de/~alb/msnlib
 203. http://www.gnome.org/
 204. http://www.ximian.com
 205. http://www.f-prot.com/
 206. http://www.netmeridian.com/e-huss/
 207. ftp://ftp.mamalinux.com/pub/atftp/
 208. http://www4.infi.net/~cpinkham/gyach/
 209. http://www.ltsp.org/
 210. http://rsync.samba.org/
 211. ftp://ftp.suse.com/pub/people/kukuk/ipv6/
 212. http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/network/tftp/
 213. http://www.linux.it/~md/software/
 214. http://www.ovmj.org/GNUnet/
 215. http://www.xmule.org/
 216. http://www.apache.org http://www.modssl.org
 217. http://www.mozilla.org/projects/firebird/
 218. http://www.opera.com/linux/
 219. http://www.nongnu.org/straw/
 220. http://www.nsa.gov/selinux
 221. http://www.knopper.net/knoppix/
 222. http://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/
 223. http://www.garloff.de/kurt/linux/ddrescue/
 224. http://packages.debian.org/unstable/base/debianutils.html
 225. http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/system/hardware/
 226. http://www.nsa.gov/selinux
 227. http://www.gentoo.org
 228. http://smartmontools.sourceforge.net/
 229. http://www.xinetd.org
 230. http://www.nt.phys.kyushu-u.ac.jp/shimizu/download/download.html
 231. http://www.informatik.uni-stuttgart.de/ipvr/bv/cppvm/index.html
 232. http://www.epm.ornl.gov/pvm/pvm_home.html
 233. http://sources.redhat.com/binutils/
 234. http://distcc.samba.org/
 235. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html
 236. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/hardened/etdyn-ssp.xml
 237. ftp://people.redhat.com/jakub/prelink
 238. http://www.linux-mips.org/
 239. http://www.kernel.org/
 240. http://www.xfree.org
 241. http://www.gtk.org/
 242. http://www.gnome.org/
 243. http://www.pango.org/
 244. http://www.trolltech.com/
 245. http://icecc.sourceforge.net/
 246. http://icecc.sourceforge.net/
 247. http://icecc.sourceforge.net/
 248. http://www.freedesktop.org
 249. http://netdragon.sourceforge.net/
 250. http://www.hubbe.net/~hubbe/x2vnc.html
 251. http://www.xnview.com/
 252. http://tnemeth.free.fr/projets/dockapps.html
 253. http://www.gnome.org/
 254. http://www.gnome.org/
 255. http://www.gnome.org/softwaremap/projects/gnome-themes
 256. http://www.mandrakelinux.com
 257. http://kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=6986
 258. http://fluxspace.sourceforge.net/
 259. http://www.gnome.org/softwaremap/projects/metacity/
 
Total categories: 96
Total packages: 5558
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[260]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Between 29 August 2003 and 04 September 2003, activity 
on the site has resulted in: 

 260. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 384 new bugs during this period 
 * 182 bugs closed or resolved during this period 
 * 8 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3837 currently open bugs: 94 are labeled 'blocker', 196 are labeled 
'critical', and 287 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs during this period 
are: 
 
 * Alastair Tse[261], with 20 closed bugs[262]  
 * Gentoo Games[263], with 15 closed bugs[264]  
 * x86 Kernel Team[265], with 8 closed bugs[266]  
 * Gentoo Security[267], with 8 closed bugs[268]  
 * Patrick Kursawe[269], with 8 closed bugs[270]  
 * Gnome Desktop Team[271], with 8 closed bugs[272]  
 261. liquidx@gentoo.org
 262. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09-04&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=liquidx@gentoo.org
 263. games@gentoo.org
 264. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09-04&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=games@gentoo.org
 265. x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 266. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09-04&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 267. security@gentoo.org
 268. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09-04&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=security@gentoo.org
 269. phosphan@gentoo.org
 270. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09-04&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=phosphan@gentoo.org
 271. gnome@gentoo.org
 272. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09-04&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org

New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs during 
this period are: 
 
 * Gentoo Sound Team[273], with 19 new bugs[274]  
 * Gentoo Web Application Packages Maintainers[275], with 18 new bugs[276] 
 
 * Martin Schlemmer[277], with 12 new bugs[278]  
 * Python Gentoo Team[279], with 9 new bugs[280]  
 * Media-TV Team[281], with 9 new bugs[282]  
 273. sound@gentoo.org
 274. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09
-04&assigned_to=sound@gentoo.org
 275. web-apps@gentoo.org
 276. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09
-04&assigned_to=web-apps@gentoo.org
 277. azarah@gentoo.org
 278. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09
-04&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org
 279. python@gentoo.org
 280. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09
-04&assigned_to=python@gentoo.org
 281. media-tv@gentoo.org
 282. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-29&chfieldto=2003-09
-04&assigned_to=media-tv@gentoo.org

==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Using SSH for remote commands
 
This week's tip shows a less common use of SSH. Most people use SSH to 
login to servers or boxes remotely. However, you can also use SSH to issue 
commands on remote servers without opening a full login shell. 
 
Note:  To use SSH without having to enter a password all the time, use 
Keychain. 
 
To issue commands through SSH, simply type the command after the normal 
SSH login information (e.g. ssh user@host command). The following example 
shows you how to view log files on a remote web server. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
| Viewing an Apache2 access_log                                           |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% ssh david@www.example.com tail /var/log/apache2/access_log             |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Alternatively, you could change passwords over SSH (although using public 
key authentication with SSH is recommended over passwords). 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
| Remotely changing a password                                            |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% ssh david@example.com passwd                                           |
|(current) UNIX password: password                                        |
|New UNIX password: new_password                                          |
|Retype new UNIX password: new_password                                   |
|Changing password for david                                              |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
This should get you started with remote command execution. See the SSH man 
pages for more options. 
   
========================================
10. Featured Quote/Signature of the Week
========================================
  
Featured Quote/Signature is taking a break this week. 
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
 
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * none this week 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[283].

 283. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[284] and help make the GWN better.

 284. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[285] 
 * English[286] 
 * German[287] 
 * French[288] 
 * Japanese[289] 
 * Italian[290] 
 * Polish[291] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[292] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[293] 
 * Russian[294] 
 * Spanish[295] 
 * Turkish[296] 
 285. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 286. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 287. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 288. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 289. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 290. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 291. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 292. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 293. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 294. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 295. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 296. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml

Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brian Downey <bdowney@briandowney.net> - Contributor
Cal Evans <cal@calevans.com> - Contributor
Chris Gavin <gubbs@fudo.org> - Contributor
Luke Giuliani <cold_flame@email.com> - Contributor
Shawn Jonnet <shawn.jonnet@verizon.net> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gerrynjr@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Galkin <gals_home@list.ru> - Russian Translator
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Alex Spirin <asp13@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Denis Zaletov <dzaletov@rambler.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
