[Editor's Note: Kurt Lieber is on vacation this week, so this week's GWN is          
being published by Sascha Schwabbauer]

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of June 9th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Announcing Gentoo on MacOS X 
 * Hardened Gentoo demonstrates SELinux 
 * Open positions in the Gentoo Linux project 
    
Announcing Gentoo on MacOS X
----------------------------
  
We're pleased to announce that the Gentoo platform will soon be available 
for MacOS X. This means that users will be able to enjoy the the power and 
simplicity of the Gentoo platform and Portage where they happen to be, on 
the operating system they are currently using -- even if that operating 
system isn't GNU/Linux. We want to give our users more choices than anyone 
else, including the ability to use non-GNU operating systems and non-Linux 
kernels if they have that particular requirement or desire. 
 
We are currently getting our infrastructure ready (mailing lists, project 
page, etc.) for this project and integrating Portage for MacOS X into our 
mainline Portage sources. News about further developments will be posted 
on the Gentoo news page[1] as well as in future editions of the GWN. 

 1. http://www.gentoo.org/
    
Hardened Gentoo demonstrates SELinux
------------------------------------
  
Hardened Gentoo is proud to announce that we have made available a machine 
to demonstrate some of our technology. The machine is available via ssh to 
illustrate SELinux, an advanced mandatory access control system. The 
reason we are providing this to everyone is to show everyone the 
significance of the work we are doing. 
 
What this machine is: 
 
 * A Gentoo installation secured with SELinux, running several daemons for 
testing in a production environment. 
 
What this machine is not: 
 
 * A chrooted installation 
 * A uml installation 
 * A userland restricted shell (ie: rbash) 
 * A honeypot/honeynet 
 * A completely useless and stripped down machine 
 * Impervious to DoS attacks (don't DoS or forkbomb, it doesn't do 
anything except annoy people and stop others from enjoying the machine) 
 * A workstation; the main focus is on servers, running selinux on 
desktops is possible, but not currently supported 
 
root is a real user with UID=0, nothing in addition to SELinux has been 
used to secure this machine so that we can demonstrate how SELinux works. 
Feel free to try and obtain higher access on the machine, and take a look 
at dmesg to see the denials when they occur. 
 
Without further ado, please visit http://selinux.dev.gentoo.org for root 
login information. 
 
Anyone who is interested in this, and would like to know when it's ready 
for most users and after it's been tested in production environments 
should subscribe to the gentoo-hardened@gentoo.org mailing list and come 
to #gentoo-hardened on irc.freenode.net. Our project page at 
http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/hardened will also be updated when status 
changes occur. 
    
Open positions in the Gentoo Linux project
------------------------------------------
  
The following Portage packages are currently in need of a maintainer. If 
you are interested in taking one of these positions, please send an e-mail 
to recruiters@gentoo.org with your full name, location, Linux (and 
especially Gentoo) experience, areas of expertise, and level of experience 
with the particular application in question. 
 
If you're unsure about what level of experience any of these tasks 
require, try searching http://bugs.gentoo.org for open bugs on the package 
name to get a feeling for the type of experience and skill necessary for 
that particular package. 
 
We will make every effort to respond to each email personally. However, 
due to the sheer volume of email that we receive, please accept our thanks 
in advance in case we're not able to respond to your email 
 
 * XFree86 
 * Scheme 
 * Emacs/XEmacs 
 * courier 
 * Wine/Winex 
 * OpenOffice 
 * Keychain 
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: tomcat 
 * GLSA: uw-imapd 
 * GLSA: maelstrom 
 * GLSA: apache-2.x 
 * New Security Bug Reports 
    
GLSA: tomcat
------------
  
The tomcat servlet creates the /opt/tomcat directory with privileges that 
permit local users to read files that contain passwords. 
 
 * Severity: High - Local password compromise. 
 * Packages Affected: net-www/tomcat prior to tomcat-4.1.24-r1 
 * Rectification 1: Synchronize and emerge tomcat, emerge clean. 
 * Rectification 2: /etc/init.d/tomcat stop ; chmod -R 750 /opt/topcat/ ; 
/etc/init.d/tomcat start 
 * GLSA Announcement[2] 
 2. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58013

GLSA: uw-imapd
--------------
  
The UW-imapd IMAP daemon can also be used as a client. By default, any 
authenticated user is permitted to connect to the server, even in 
restricted operating modes. Exploiting this vulnerability could be used to 
gain access to the system as the logged-in user. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote authentication compromise. 
 * Packages Affected: net-mail/uw-imapd prior to uw-imapd-2002d 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge uw-imapd, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[3] 
 * Advisory[4] 
 3. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=57718
 4. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=105294024124163&w=2

GLSA: maelstrom
---------------
  
The game maelstrom has a buffer overflow that could permit a local user to 
execute arbitrary code. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - Arbitrary code execution, limited to users with 
local access. 
 * Packages Affected: app-games/maelstrom prior to maelstrom-3.0.6 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge maelstrom, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[5] 
 * Advisory[6] 
 5. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=57717
 6. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=105337792703887&w=2

GLSA: apache-2.x
----------------
  
Apache 2.0 servers are subject to a remote Denial-of-Service attack 
through the mod_dav (and possibly other) mechanism. This vulnerability is 
a result of a configuration bug that causes the server to be thread-unsafe 
in certain configurations. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - Remote DoS. 
 * Packages Affected: net-www/apache-2.x prior to apache-2.0.46 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge apache, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[7] 
 * Advisory[8] 
 * Advisory[9] 
 7. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=57720
 8. http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/Announcement2.html
 9. http://www.idefense.com/advisory/05.30.03.txt

New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted this week: 
 
 * app-text/ghostscript[10] 
 * app-emulation/xmame[11] 
 * net-www/mod_gzip[12] 
 * app-i18n/kon2[13] 
 * sys-apps/man[14] 
 * net-ftp/atftp[15] 
 10. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22254
 11. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22255
 12. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22256
 13. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22258
 14. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22260
 15. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=22261
    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
The guys behind breakmygentoo.net
 
Figure 3.1: The team of breakmygentoo.net
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030609_breakmygentoo.jpg
 
This week we feature the people who took care of all the CVS ebuilds left 
homeless by the "Great Portage CVS Purge '03", Matthew Schick 
(lin_matt[16]) and Karl Abbott (karl11[17]).

 16. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=2799
 17. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=2881
 
So who are these guys who so desperately try to break your Gentoo? Karl is 
currently a Computer Science undergraduate at the University of Southern 
Mississippi (USM) and 21 years old. He uses Linux as his operating system 
of choice since September 2001. Matthew Schick, 27, works as systems 
administrator at USM's computer science department. A Linux user since 
1998 he tried various distributions including Red Hat, Caldera, Mandrake 
and Debian before deciding to go with Gentoo Linux in May 2002. He 
recently switched the department's main server successfully from Red Hat 
7.2 to Gentoo Linux, and is currently looking into the viability of 
migrating all the lab's machines (around 100) sometime during this summer 
as well.
 
Once upon a time in Gentoo land...
 
breakmygentoo.net[18] originated from a site called "Ebuild Central". The 
purpose of this site was to have a place to share "home-grown" ebuilds 
among Gentoo users locally as well as having a place to link to from the 
forums. The quicktime enabled MPlayer ebuilds were hot at that time and 
after exceeding the bandwith of Karl's site[19] both of them knew they had 
to find another solution.

 18. http://breakmygentoo.net
 19. http://99b.org
 
Unexpected success
 
So Matt talked to one of his clients in Los Angeles and obtained some much 
needed space and bandwidth for the site in December of 2002. After a 
little while of going only with an IP address, Matt and Karl decided that 
a domain would be necessary, and thus breakmygentoo.net was born in 
February 2003. The name was decided on as both a warning and a 
tongue-in-cheek joke for anyone hitting the site. Even during those times 
they simply expected the project to be a way of sharing ebuilds amongst 
themselves and a few people who might be interested in the same types of 
software. For the first few months, the site was simply a listing of the 
ebuilds in the directory. But it soon became obvious that there was a high 
demand, and just a few weeks ago, Karl created a frontend for the site and 
then announced[20] the launch of the new site. With that launch comes the 
project's own bugzilla, giving brave Gentooists the ability to submit 
ebuilds and bug reports that they encounter with all the CVS ebuilds out 
there.

 20. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=56667
 
With the release of GNOME 2.3.2 has come some of the highest usage the 
site has ever experienced. The fans of breakmygentoo.net have also helped 
identify several potential bugs, both on the Gentoo side as well as in 
some of the GNOME software. This gives Gentoo users an opportunity to play 
with what many people regard as the most exciting release of GNOME so far.
 
Some stats
 
In January Matthew and Karl started to keep track of the site's stats 
using Webalizer[21]. At this time they had a daily average of 117 and a 
monthly total of 3650 hits, whereas in May they experienced an average of 
927 hits a day which amounted to a total of 28,748 page hits at the end of 
the month. The first two days of June already saw more than 10,000 hits 
which makes one think about all the people out there trying to break their 
Gentoos... ;-)

 21. http://www.mrunix.net/webalizer/
 
Final words
 
Here's what they have to say:
 
Matt: "breakmygentoo.net has become an unlikely resource for folks that 
enjoy bug hunting (or just playing) in the realm of unstable software. 
Hopefully some of the information that's gained through the usage of the 
ebuilds on the site will contribute to the overall quality of the stable 
releases."
 
Karl: "breakmygentoo.net came out of the necessity for a shared space for 
development ebuilds. I never could have imagined it becoming as widely 
used as it is today."
 
Also both of them would like to express their thanks to everyone who has 
contributed to the site!
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Joshua Brindle, aka Method
 
Figure 4.1: Joshua Brindle, aka Method
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030609_method.jpg
 
Joshua Brindle[22] is in charge of several security-related Gentoo 
projects, acting as liaison between the teams and Gentoo proper in 
addition to participating and getting his hands dirty. The biggest one is 
Hardened Gentoo, which Joshua himself started a few months ago and now 
boasts five active developers and the official SELinux play machine 
mentioned earlier in the newsletter. Joshua is also working on the 
integration of Propolice stack smashing protection[23] into Gentoo; he and 
his team are very close to getting it into the default profiles. With all 
this security work he hasn't been able to participate in SPARC development 
(when Joshua joined first the team in November 2002 it was as a SPARC 
developer), he's really proud of how far he and his teams have come in 
such a short time and hopes to continue to progress and show the world 
what Gentoo is really made of. 

 22. method@gentoo.org
 23. http://www.trl.ibm.com/projects/security/ssp/
 
An undergraduate studying for a BS in System Network Management, and 
working as UNIX administrator at Southern Nazarene University, Joshua's 
favorite applications are actually mostly servers: Apache, PHP, exim, 
MySQL, and openSSH. While he usually runs Linux on servers, on the rare 
occasions when he runs it on a desktop he uses KDE, Konqueror, and 
Evolution, as well as VMWare (which he wishes were open). His hobbies 
include watching the Simpsons, drinking Dr. Pepper, partying, clubbing, 
and playing Warcraft III. Joshua lives in Oklahoma but is from Texas! (he 
says that people who live or have lived in Texas would understand). When 
he graduates next semester and starts hunting for a job, he says he'll be 
sure to put in an application at the NSA. 
   
=========================
5. Heard In The Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Much Ado About Macintosh
 
Drobbins' announcement of Gentoo/Mac OS X and the new LiveCDs for the 
PowerPC architecture have rippled the waves quite considerably last week. 
A few people are discussing the virtues of Portage vs. Fink or 
Darwinports, others suddenly express revived interest in Macintosh 
emulators on x86 for Linux, and the lead dev for PPC dropped by to ask for 
hardware loans of oldworld Macs and PReP machines (i.e. IBM RS/6000 etc.) 
that he could use for testing the LiveCD:

 * Gentoo on OSX[24] 
 * Macintosh emulators[25] 
 * Great ! the new LiveCD ! Fantastic bombastic ![26] 
 * liveCD boots on /dev/hda but my HD is now not available[27] 
 * Oldworld machines needed[28] 
 24. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58616
 25. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58687
 26. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58261
 27. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58827
 28. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58662
 
Ximian Desktop 2 Port
 
Not many of the Gentoo developers are also forum regulars, since most of 
them prefer the mailing lists or the IRC channels. But when link[29] 
suddenly announced that he was starting work on a port of Ximian's Desktop 
2, due out in the market this week starting 9 June 2003, the devs came 
flocking in to offer advice and help and wish him luck:

 29. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=1794
 
 * The Gentoo XD2 port project[30] 
 30. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58568
    
gentoo-user
-----------
  
Laptops and Gentoo
 
In the beginning, only the most devout hackers with a basement full of 
luck were able to get Linux running properly on their laptops. The quirky 
hardware, screens and suspend modes boggled driver developers, leaving 
many features disabled or abandoned. Fortunately the increasing demand has 
fueled the maturation of laptop-centric drivers, and installing Linux on a 
laptop is now considered childs play. The good news is that the whole 
community feels that all distibutions considered, Gentoo Linux is an 
excellent choice for laptops. One reason for this is Gentoo's tendency to 
stay on the cutting edge of latest stable software. Armed with the ACPI 
patches of the 1.4rc4 LiveCD, Gentoo'ers should experience a smooth ride 
while running a base system on their laptop. Heat was mentioned as an 
important issue due to Gentoo's propensity to stress the CPU while 
compiling for extended periods on sometimes indadaquately cooled laptops. 
Finne Boonen solved[31] this by placing the laptop on bricks. Another 
issue was that of sound dying after returning from safe mode. Jason 
Nielson let us know his solution here[32]. In a seperate thread[33] Cedric 
Veilleux asked which vendor of laptop should be purchased. Many great 
recommendations were given, including Chris Meidinger's submission of 
linux-on-laptops.com[34]. All in all, Gentoo Linux is recommended as a 
viable solution for laptops, and that you are encouraged to try it out. 

 31. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/35333
 32. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/35417
 33. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
00306042035.03298.cedric%40neopeak.com%3E
 34. http://www.linux-on-laptops.com/
 
 * Laptop + Gentoo[35] 
 * Which laptop vendors officially support linux?[36] 
 35. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
00306041702.23524.johnny%40johnnys.info%3E
 36. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
00306042035.03298.cedric%40neopeak.com%3E
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
This week has seen many smaller threads, however interesting. And one of 
them in particular:
 
(FS) Attributes for Ebuilds?
 
Using the file system as a sort of extra database functionality for 
portage. So as to allow for, maybe faster searches or expanded 
categorization.
 
This idea[37] came as a followup, by Michael Kohl, to the earlier 
discussion about categories[38] in portage.

 37. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/9121
 38. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/9084
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Italian Gentoo Propaganda Machines Roundup
 
Enrico Morelli, initiator of Gentoo Linux Italia[39], has recently closed 
the unofficial forum he maintained on a university server in favour of 
inviting everyone to join the official Italian forum[40]. His excellent 
website continues to be around, of course.  And now there's yet another 
unofficial Gentoo website in Italy[41]: Joe and Stefano Lucidi have 
concocted a PHP-driven website based on Postnuke, and included a broad 
range of Gentoo-centric information with news directly off the frontpage, 
a user forum and a few other gimmicks including AvantGo PDA-formatted 
infos.  The Italian mailing list[42] the duo established is also quite
successful.

 39. http://www.gentoo.it
 40. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewforum.php?f=41
 41. http://gentoo-italia.ath.cx/
 42. http://it.groups.yahoo.com/group/gentoo-it/
 
Journée des Gentooistes
 
As reported earlier, the French Gentooists are discussing the date and 
venue for a Gentoo user meeting in France. The preliminary verdict seems 
to point in the direction of a meeting in Paris, sometime after the 
infamous rentrée when millions of French head back to town from their 
summer vacation. A web forum[43] set aside exclusively for coordinating 
the details is waiting for people to express their opinions.

 43. http://sebweb.homelinux.org/viewforum.php?f=2
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following notable packages were updated or added to portage this week
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 * sys-kernel/ac-sources: Full sources for Alan Cox's Linux kernel[44] 
 44. http://www.kernel.org/
    
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage this week
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 * app-dicts/aspell-en: [45] 
 * dev-perl/Apache-DBI: Apache::DBI module for perl[46] 
 * dev-perl/AppConfig: The Perl CGI Module[47] 
 * dev-perl/Archive-Tar: A Perl module for creation and manipulation of 
tar files[48] 
 * media-fonts/arphicfonts: Arphic Fonts[49] 
 * net-fs/am-utils: amd automounter and utilities[50] 
 * net-www/adzapper: redirector for squid that intercepts advertising, 
page counters and some web bugs[51] 
 * sys-libs/cracklib: Password Checking Library[52] 
 * x11-plugins/asmem: Memory statistics monitor utility for X Windows[53] 
 * x11-plugins/fsviewer: file system viewer for Window Maker[54] 
 45. http://www.gnu.org/projects/aspell/index.html
 46. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/Apache/
 47. http://search.cpan.org/author/ABW/AppConfig-1.52/
 48. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Archive/${P}.readme
 49. http://www.arphic.com.tw/
 50. http://www.am-utils.org
 51. http://adzapper.sourceforge.net/
 52. http://www.crypticide.org/users/alecm/
 53. http://www.tigr.net
 54. http://www.bayernline.de/~gscholz/linux/fsviewer/

Total categories: 82
 
Total packages: 4564 (86 packages added since last week)
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  Due to server problems last week, this week's statistics are based on 
the 14 day period between 23 May 2003 and 5 Jun 2003  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[55]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. In the last 14 days, activity on the site has resulted 
in: 

 55. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 471 new bugs during this period 
 * 326 bugs closed during this period 
 * 10 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3259 currently open bugs: 54 are labeled 'blocker', 133 are labeled 
'critical', and 253 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs this week are: 
 
 * The XFree Team[56], with 20 closed bugs[57]  
 * The KDE Team[58], with 19 closed bugs[59]  
 * Todd Berman[60], with 18 closed bugs[61]  
 * Martin Holzer[62], with 18 closed bugs[63]  
 * The Mirror Administrators[64], with 17 closed bugs[65]  
 56. xfree@gentoo.org
 57. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23&chfieldto=2003-06-05 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=xfree%40gentoo.org
 58. kde@gentoo.org
 59. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23&chfieldto=2003-06-05 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=kde%40gentoo.org
 60. tberman@gentoo.org
 61. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23&chfieldto=2003-06-05 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=tberman%40gentoo.org
 62. mholzer@gentoo.org
 63. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23&chfieldto=2003-06-05 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=mholzer%40gentoo.org
 64. mirror-admin@gentoo.org
 65. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23&chfieldto=2003-06-05 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=mirror-admin%40gentoo.org

    
New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs this 
week are: 
 
 * The Perl Team[66], with 66 new bugs[67]  
 * Nicholas Jones[68], with 23 new bugs[69]  
 * The x86 Kernel Team[70], with 13 new bugs[71]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[72], with 12 new bugs[73]  
 * Dylan Carson[74], with 10 new bugs[75]  
 * Ryan Phillips[76], with 10 new bugs[77]  
 66. perl@gentoo.org
 67. http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23 
&chfieldto=2003-06-05&=&assigned_to=perl%40gentoo.org
 68. carpaski@gentoo.org
 69. http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23 
&chfieldto=2003-06-05&=&assigned_to=carpaski%40gentoo.org
 70. x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 71. http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23 
&chfieldto=2003-06-05&=&assigned_to=x86-kernel%40gentoo.org
 72. azarah@gentoo.org
 73. http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23 
&chfieldto=2003-06-05&=&assigned_to=azarah%40gentoo.org
 74. absinthe@gentoo.org
 75. http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23 
&chfieldto=2003-06-05&=&assigned_to=absinthe%40gentoo.org
 76. rphillips@gentoo.org
 77. http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-05-23 
&chfieldto=2003-06-05&=&assigned_to=rphillips%40gentoo.org

    
==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Combining Commands with For
 
This week's tip shows you how to run similar commands in a loop to avoid 
typing in the same command over and over again. For example, untarring 
several tar.gz files. Or perhaps renaming files with similar extensions. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
| for and tar                                                             |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# for n in *.tar.gz; do tar -zxvf $n; done                               |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
This next instance demonstrates removing the .dist extension of several 
files. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
| for and mv                                                              |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# for n in *.dist; do mv $n `basename $n .dist`; done                    |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
If necessary, you could combine it with find to rename all .phtml files in 
/home/httpd/htdocs to .php 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.3:                                                       |
| for and find                                                            |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# cd /home/httpd/htdocs                                                  |
|# for n in `find -type f -name '*.phtml'`;  \                            |
|    do mv $n `basename $n .phtml`.php; done                              |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
===============================
10. Quote/Signature of the week
===============================
  
This week's featured .sig was seen on gentoo-dev in a message[78] from 
Pascal Bourguignon: "Do not adjust your mind, there is a fault in 
reality." Or maybe it's just a fault in the matrix? ;-)

 78. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/9011/
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 

 * none this week 
 
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * Abhishek Amit ("andrd") -- LDAP 
 * Brad Laue (brad) -- phoenix/firebird 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[79].

 79. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[80] and help make GWN better.

 80. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[81] 
 * English[82] 
 * German[83] 
 * French[84] 
 * Japanese[85] 
 * Italian[86] 
 * Polish[87] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[88] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[89] 
 * Russian[90] 
 * Spanish[91] 
 * Turkish[92] 
 81. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 82. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 83. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 84. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 85. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 86. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 87. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 88. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 89. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 90. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 91. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 92. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml
  

Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brice Burgess <nesta@iceburg.net> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Peter Sharp <mail@psharp.uklinux.net> - Contributor
Kim Tingkaer <kim@thinkit.dk> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Jaroslaw Swierad <messer@7thguard.net> - Polish Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <gustavo@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Ricardo Jorge Louro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Ricardo Nogueira <R.Nogueira@records.usyd.edu.au> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
