---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of March 24th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * How to become a Gentoo developer 
 * Changes in the way Gentoo Linux supports CFLAGS 
 * errata from last week's issue 
  
A question we hear a lot from Gentoo users is, "How can I become a member 
of the Gentoo development team?" Largely, the answer to this question is 
simply to start assisting the development process as a user. This can be 
done via numerous ways, most of which involve bugs.gentoo.org[1] to an 
extent. Submitting bug fixes for existing bugs on a consistent basis is 
one sure way to get the attention of the Gentoo developers. Additionally, 
consistently submitting new ebuilds is another way. As you may have 
noticed, consistency is an important part of the overall process. 

 1. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
For those folks who still want to become a developer, but aren't kernel 
hacking gurus or python mongers, helping with the development of Gentoo's 
documentation is another area where users can contribute and become 
members of the team. Whether it's creating new documents or assisting in 
translating existing documents into other languages, the quality of our 
Documentation is a critical part of the overall success of Gentoo Linux. 
 
Finally, as the Gentoo Linux project continues to grow, other types of 
roles, such as GWN contributors and infrastructure people, may become 
available as well. They will be announced here in the Gentoo Weekly 
Newletter on an as-needed basis. So for those of you interested in 
becoming part of the Gentoo Linux team, take a crack at some open bugs, 
creating new ebuilds or helping out with documentation. Regular 
contributors will get noticed! 
    
Changes in the way Gentoo Linux supports CFLAGS
-----------------------------------------------
  
CFLAGS have always been an important part of the Gentoo Linux hacker's 
toolkit. Tweaking CFLAGS to eke out every last drop of performance is a 
technique that is used by many, but fully understood by few. Many of the 
bugs filed on bugs.gentoo.org[2] are directly caused by overly aggressive 
CFLAGS in a user's make.conf file. One of the ways that the Gentoo Linux 
developers deal with this is by stripping out certain CFLAGS in ebuilds 
where they are known to cause problems. (Most kernel modules, for 
instance, don't like the -fPIC option) However, this is handled on a 
case-by-case basis, which is not a long-term solution. 

 2. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
In an effort to come up with a long term solution, a discussion was had on 
the internal Gentoo Linux developer's mailing list talking about various 
options. In the end, the decision was reached to come up with a list of 
safe CFLAGS that will be officially supported by Gentoo Linux. This means 
if you use one of these flags and have problems with it, it will be 
considered a valid bug in Gentoo Linux. Users are still free to try any 
and all other CFLAGS as they see fit, but bugs filed in relation to these 
options may not be considered valid and the user may be asked to try 
less-aggressive optimization settings when compiling that specific 
program. Over time, as gcc continues to mature, the list of officially 
supported CFLAGS will be reviewed and added to as appropriate, with the 
goal being to support as many -f options s possible without overwhelming 
our QA and bugfix resources. 
 
To a large extent, this practice of supported vs. unsupported CFLAGS has 
been in practice for quite some time now. However, now the process will be 
formalized and the list of supported CFLAGS will be integrated into our 
installation docs as well as our other documentation where appropriate. 
    
errata from last week's issue
-----------------------------
  
As many readers pointed out, last week's Tips & Tricks section contained 
an error in one of the code listings. Instead of 
SYNC="rsync.us.gentoo.org", it should have been listed as 
SYNC="rsync://rsync.us.gentoo.org/gentoo-portage". The person making the 
error has been properly tarred and feathered and this week's Tips & Tricks 
section is brought to you by our normal contributor, David Narayan, who 
was on vacation last week. (and thus is absolved from all blame :)) 
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: samba 
 * GLSA: kernel 
 * GLSA: mysql 
 * GLSA: openssl 
 * GLSA: rxvt 
 * GLSA: evolution 
 * GLSA: qpopper 
 * GLSA: man 
 * New Security Bug Reports 
 * gentoo-security 
    
GLSA: samba
-----------
  
The samba smbd daemon has a buffer overflow which could permit a remote 
attacker to gain root privileges on the server. 
 
 * Severity: Critical - Remote root exposure. 
 * Packages Affected: net-fs/samba versions prior to samba-2.2.8 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge samba, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[3] 
 * Advisory[4] 
 
 3. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=41881
 4. http://lists.samba.org/pipermail/samba-announce/2003-March/000063.html

    
GLSA: kernel
------------
  
Linux stable kernels 2.2 and 2.4 have a flaw in ptrace that permits local 
users to elevate their privileges to root. The flaw is not remotely 
exploitable. It is not believed that the flaw affects the 2.5 kernel. The 
following kernel sources have been patched: gentoo-sources, gs-sources, 
pfeifer-sources, sparc-sources, and xfs-sources. A patch for other sources 
can be obtained from cvs[5]. 

 5. http://www.gentoo.org/~aliz/linux-2.4.20-ptrace.patch
 
 * Severity: High - Kernel compromise, privilege elevation. 
 * Packages Affected: Linux kernel versions 2.2, 2.4 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge kernel sources for your system, 
   recompile and install kernel. 
 * GLSA Announcement[6] 
 * Advisory[7] 
 
 6. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42814
 7. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=linux-kernel&m=104791735604202&w=2
    
GLSA: mysql
-----------
  
If MySQL's configuration file's are world-writable, it is possible to 
modify the server's configuration so that MySQL will run as root after a 
restart. MySQL has been fixed so that it will not load world-writable 
config files. 
 
 * Severity: High - Privilege elevation. 
 * Packages Affected: dev-db/mysql versions prior to mysql-3.23.56 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge mysql, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[8] 
 * Advisory[9] 
 
 8. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42383
 9. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=104739810523433&w=2
    
GLSA: openssl
-------------
  
OpenSSL is subject to a timing attack which may permit exposure of RSA 
keys. This vulnerability can be eliminated by enabling RSA blinding. The 
fix is to enable blinding by default, involving only a trivial performance 
impact. 
 
 * Severity: High - Cryptographic exposure. 
 * Packages Affected: dev-libs/openssl versions prior to openssl-0.9.6i-r1 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge openssl, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[10] 
 * Advisory[11] 
 
 10. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42581
 11. http://www.openssl.org/news/secadv_20030317.txt

    
GLSA: rxvt
----------
  
The rxvt terminal emulator is subject to remote attack when un-trusted 
data is displayed to the screen. This exposure permits a DOS attack or (by 
taking advantage of other vulnerabilities on the system) the potential for 
system compromise. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote System Compromise. 
 * Packages Affected: x11-terms/rxvt versions prior to rxvt-2.7.8-r6 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge rxvt, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[12] 
 * Advisory[13] 
 
 12. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42582
 13. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=104612710031920&w=2
    
GLSA: evolution
---------------
  
Evolution is subject to several vulnerabilities that permit remote attacks 
ranging from DoS through security bypasses and potential execution of 
arbitrary code through the use of carefully crafted UUEncodes or MIME 
headers. 
 
 * Severity: High - Multiple exposures to remote attack. 
 * Packages Affected: versions prior to evolution-1.2.3 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge , emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[14] 
 * Advisory[15] 
 
 14. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42816
 15. http://www.coresecurity.com/common/showdoc.php?idx=309&idxseccion=10
    
GLSA: qpopper
-------------
  
Qpopper exposes a buffer overflow which could permit the execution of 
arbitrary code. The code would normally be executed with the privileges of 
a user that must be authenticated. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - arbitrary code execution, mitigated by requirement 
   for user authentication. 
 * Packages Affected: net-mail/qpopper versions prior to qpopper-4.0.5 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge qpopper, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[16] 
 * Advisory[17] 
 
 16. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=41957
 17. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=104739841223916&w=2
    
GLSA: man
---------
  
Man contains an error return value bug that could permit a specially 
formatted man file to execute a program named 'unsafe', if it exists. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - arbitrary code execution, mitigated by requirement 
   for local access and program installation. 
 * Packages Affected: versions prior to  
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge , emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[18] 
 * Advisory[19] 
 
 18. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42384
 19. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=bugtraq&m=104740927915154&w=2
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted this week: 
 
 * net-irc/bitchx[20] 
 * dev-java/*[21] 
 * kerberos[22] 
 * net-im/gaim[23] 
 * sys-apps/baselayout[24] 
 * media-libs/net-bpm[25] 
 * sys-libs/glibc[26] 
 * net-mail/mutt[27] 
 * net-www/mod_ssl[28] 
 
 20. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17567
 21. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17574
 22. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17718
 23. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17733
 24. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17738
 25. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17756
 26. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17846
 27. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17857
 28. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17862

gentoo-security
---------------
  
Alexander Holler posted a  message[29] to the gentoo-security mailing list 
describing and offering a link to a proof-of-concept trojan for gentoo 
that exploits the  oft-discussed[30] problem that ebuilds are not signed 
or otherwise authenticated. Mr. Holler's statement that "nobody .. seems 
concerned about portage security" provoked some comment, as did the 
question about whether posting a trojan for an already documented 
vulnerability was productive or advisable. The discussion continued with 
some expressions of concern that the issue be addressed soon, including a 
note[31] from Daniel Robbins indicating a desire to add enhanced security 
to Portage-2.0. All told, the discussion seems particularly timely, given 
the recent  launch[32] of the hardened gentoo project. 

 29. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-security&m=104816199500974&w=2
 30. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5902
 31. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-security&m=104820132213706&w=2
 32. 
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/20030317-newsletter.xml#doc_chap1_sect5
 
=================================
3. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Daniel Ahlberg
 
This week we feature Daniel Ahlberg[33], one of the watchful eyes who keep 
Gentoo secure and up-to-date. Monitoring security-related mailing lists 
and hunting for new package versions, he sends out GLSAs and bumps package 
versions, facing the constant fear of breaking something when he marks a 
package as stable. Daniel had been using Gentoo for a couple of months 
when he saw a discussion on #gentoo-dev about how every package needed to 
be checked for the license it used, and the new LICENSE keyword added to 
each ebuild. Later that night he checked the licenses and updated the 
ebuilds for a couple of categories, and sent them to drobbins and seemant, 
who asked him to become a developer a couple of days later. Daniel doesn't 
feel he's done anything extraordinary, but likes the occasional bash 
script hacks he does. 

 33. aliz@gentoo.org
 
Three years ago Daniel started a company with some of his friends; he 
still works there, administering the network and servers, making sure 
others can do their work, and consulting. He likes all the software he 
uses daily, including bash, nano, phoenix, kde, enlightenment, kmail, 
xchat, sim, kate, and gkrellm2, and runs Gentoo on his three primary 
computers: a workstation at home and at work, and his laptop, which is 
usually connected to his work computer by VNC. Daniel, who lives 
"somewhere in the upper middle of Sweden", likes to read (he's on his 
third Tom Clancy novel right now), listen to music, and watch movies. 
   
=========================
4. Heard In The Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Gentoo GNU/Hurd Project Started
 
Jon Portnoy aka avenj[34] announced last week that he's started working on 
a port of the Hurd[35] for Gentoo, and he is currently scanning the Forums 
for people interested in this development. The official discussion about 
the project and the right place for anyone interested in posting a "me, 
too" has found its permanent home here:

 34. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=7981
 35. http://hurd.gnu.org

 * Repost: Anyone interested in Gentoo GNU/Hurd?[36] 
 * Avenj's page on Gentoo GNU/Hurd development[37] 

 36. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=41939
 37. http://www.gentoo.org/~avenj/

Better Uses for Gentoo Gadgetry
 
As reported last week, the Gentoo store has recently added a few new 
items, and one of those has inspired some hardware buffs to make it 
slightly more useful than it already is: Who needs sandwiches and apples 
in their Gentoo lunchbox when they can have a full-blown PC instead? Carry 
on:
 
 * Other uses for the Gentoo Lunch box[38] 
 * The lunchbox order page at the Gentoo store[39] 
 
 38. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=41716
 39. http://www.cafeshops.com/gentoolinux.5161317

Intel's C Compiler in Gentoo
 
Using the ICC, Intel's C compiler, is still quite limited, both in terms 
of software that can actually be built with it, and people who try using 
despite this limitation. Some people like to replace the default GCC with 
ICC for certain applications, and on occasion they discuss this broadly 
enough to let others get an idea of what, why and how to do it:
 
 * Anyone else using ICC?[40] 
 * replace gcc with Intel CC?[41] 
 
 40. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=33772
 41. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=28435

Gentoo Installation Success on an RS/6000
 
Got a dusty old B50 lying around in a broom closet at the office? Here's 
how to blow some new life into it... Welcome, thanks and congratulations 
to Forum newcomer JurgyMan[42] for this contribution:

 42. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=16708
 
 * Gentoo on RS6000 B50 HOWTO - first draft[43] 
 
 43. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42672
 
gentoo-user
-----------

Realistic Install timeframe
 
Trey Sizemore started an interesting thread by asking how long it 
realistically takes to install a Gentoo Linux desktop from stage 1[44]. 
Most of the responses seemed to indicate that Trey was probably a little 
optimistic in his initial assessment of getting a full KDE desktop up and 
running on a PII400 in about a day. Of course, KDE is easily the largest 
app that needs to be compiled in Trey's setup, so a lighter-weight WM like 
fluxbox would likely drop his setup time considerably. 

 44. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/26597
 
 * Realistic Install timeframe[45] 
 
 45. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C3
E7B2F24.407%40fastmail.fm%3E
 
Command line interface tools
 
Dhruba Bandopadhyay asked for opinions[46] regarding peoples' preferences 
for command line interface tools. Naturally, lively discussion ensued. 

 46. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/26664
 
 * Command line interface tools[47] 
 
 47. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
0030322004933.GA19784%40wolf.codewordt.co.uk%3E
 
ftp/iptables always in emerge world
 
Kurt Hindenberg asked why ftp and iptables always showed up during an 
emerge world[48]. When it turned out that these packages were being 
required by the base system profile, a bug report ensued[49]. 

 48. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/26368
 49. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=17859
 
 * ftp/iptables always in emerge world[50] 
 
 50. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
00303191142.41399.khindenburg%40cherrynebula.net%3E
    
gentoo-dev
----------
 
Status of a Gentoo Installer?
 
Bip Thelin asked[51] wether the creation of a Gentoo installer was in 
somebody's tasklist. He proposed to implement such an installer in Java. 
Alain Penders replied[52] with a link to CursingCow[53], a Python/NEWT 
installer for Gentoo Linux. Although currently, only the PPC architecture 
is supported the code does support architecture specific modules. Gentoo 
developer Dylan Carlson finally replied[54] that even though Java would be 
a good choice for such a task, Python plays a central role in the whole 
Gentoo infrastructure and it may be difficult to integrate a Java solution 
in the Gentoo toolchain. 

 51. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-dev&m=104789209111303&w=2
 52. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-dev&m=104792524715198&w=2
 53. http://www.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/gentoo-src/cursingcow/
 54. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-dev&m=104792524715198&w=2
 
ACCEPT_KEYWORDS + bootstrap.sh
 
As one user noticed[55], early this week, during the installation of his 
Gentoo. The bootstrap process does not use the ACCEPT_KEYWORDS setting 
from /etc/make.conf.

 55. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-dev&m=104791759004540&w=2
 
The ACCEPT_KEYWORDS is meant as a tool for easy testing of packages. That 
is, effectively users can add or remove unstable packages to the usual 
stable lot.
 
Disregarding the ACCEPT_KEYWORDS setting during bootstrap is not a bug. 
Rather it is supposed to ease the installation and to secure a stable 
foundation for the rest of Gentoo to exist on. This is done by 
specifically choosing well tested packages as opposed to newly released 
packages.
 
Some argue against this suggesting that it eliminates choices which is not 
appropriate for the kind of distribution that Gentoo is. And that there 
really is no point in trying to secure a stable foundation in this way 
when the rest of the distribution make use of the ACCEPT_KEYWORDS.
 
And the arguments are true, for the most part. Because reading through the 
/usr/portage/scripts/bootstrap.sh script reveals that the bootstrap 
process grabs packages from a file describing a default profile. A default 
profile tailored for a specific architecture (intel, ppc, etc.). So 
instead of eliminating the choices they have been disguised as profiles, 
waiting to be modified. The command cd $(readlink -f /etc/make.profile) 
will bring you to the location of your default profile.
 
A word of caution. When modifying the default profile you can possibly 
cripple your Gentoo installation from step one since version changes could 
break package dependencies.
    
=======================
5. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Gentoo in the Japanese Press
 
Two articles in Japanese about Gentoo were published on the same day last 
week in different magazines, both written by fervent supporters of 
GentooJP: Yoshiaki Hagihara, one of the translators of the GWN among other 
things, has written a very funny seven-pager ("Gentoo Lifestyle -- My days 
with Gentoo") for LinuxPower Vol. 1[56], the first issue of this new 
addition to the growing number of Linux magazines in Japan. And Masatomo 
Nakano, spiritus rector of the GentooJP project, wrote his piece ("Gentoo 
again") for the April issue of Software Design[57]. Both magazines are on 
sale in Japanese bookshops since 18 March. 

 56. http://www.enterbrain.co.jp/techwin/linux/index.html
 57. http://www.gihyo.co.jp/magazines/SD/contents
 
Russian Gentoo Community Set Up!
 
Developer George Shapovalov[58] announced that the "Fellowship of 
gentoo.ru" has been up and running for almost a month already! The 
Fellowship was born after growing interest in Gentoo Linux by the Russian 
speaking community was becoming impossible to overlook, and it's already 
got its own website[59]) and user support forums[60]. Gentoo.ru also 
provides translations for Gentoo documentation, carefully supervised by 
official devs. No need to be shy if you would like to help with 
translations or any other subotnik, the Fellowship will certainly welcome 
any such attempt. Real time chat is available on irc.rinet.ru, channel 
#gentoo.

 58. george@gentoo.org
 59. http://linuxshop.ru/unix4all/?cid=16
 60. http://linuxshop.ru/forum/viewforum.php?f=16
 
New Mailing List for French Gentoo Users
 
Adding to the support base for French speakers, a new official mailing 
list, gentoo-user-fr, has been created last week. Between the new list, 
the French forum and the IRC channel on Freenode for French users, chances 
to get support for technical questions are on a pretty acceptable level 
now. 
 
International Event Calendar
 
The GWN editorial staff is extremely grateful for information about 
anything related to conferences, seminars, user meetings, install fest or 
any other event Gentoo users are organizing or participating in. This week 
an impressive number of events has come up, take your pick from those, and 
send an e-mail to gwn-feedback@gentoo.org if you know of any others:
 
 * Austria: The Vienna community is turning openly hedonistic... They've 
barely recovered from their last meeting, yet up comes a plan for the next 
one. Date: 1 April, venue to be decided via this thread[61] in the German 
forum. 
 * Portugal: Gentoo-stronghold Coimbra (and certainly one of the most 
pleasant locations to be in around spring) is the venue for the 7th 
"Encontro de Gestão e Tecnologias da Informação", co-organized by 
Gentoo Forum moderator RoadRunner[62] and other Gentooists, to be held on 
2 April in the Auditório da Reitoria at Coimbra University. An 
indisputable highlight of this conference will be the afternoon podium 
discussion about "Free Software Use in Public Administrations", with the 
Marketing Director of Microsoft Portugal and the head of the Portuguese 
Linux distribution Caixa Magica fencing it out on stage. Further 
information here[63], if you're planning on attending the show, tell the 
others here, please[64]. 
 * France: Same day, similar subject, 800 kilometres further north... A 
conference in Paris about opportunities for free software use in small and 
medium sized companies may serve as a venue for an informal meeting of 
Gentoo users, all the details are here[65]. 
 * Denmark & Sweden: Also on 2 April, the Skåne Sjælland LUG is getting 
a fully-fledged Gentoo presentation by Klavs[66]. Details were hard to get 
by before this week's GWN deadline, but the presenter will certainly be 
able to guide you if you make yourself heard in this forum thread[67]. 
 * UK: In an almost forgotten thread in the Forums, brum-based 
mr-simon[68] is looking for Gentooists to join him at the Linux User & 
Developer Expo in Birmingham on 15/16 April[69]. 
 * GermanyStill way ahead, but worth noting: 14 May is the tentative date 
for Gentoo users in the Köln/Bonn region to organize their first meeting. 
Expressions of interest in joining the crowd go here[70]. 
 
 61. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42337
 62. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=2185
 63. http://egti.dei.uc.pt
 64. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=41922
 65. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=41972
 66. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=1524
 67. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=42421
 68. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=10081
 69. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=36907
 70. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=40510
   
================
6. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were added to portage this week
-------------------------------------------------------------
  
 * app-doc/ebook-gcc : GCC 3.2 EBook." 
 * app-sci/lin-seti : A Seti@Home cache manager, cache-compatible with 
   Seti Driver. Can be run as system daemon. 
   http://lin-seti.sourceforge.net/ 
 * dev-java/avalon-logkit : LogKit is an easy-to-use Java logging toolkit 
   designed for secure, performance-oriented logging. 
   http://avalon.apache.org/ 
 * dev-java/commons-cli : The CLI library provides a simple and easy to 
   use API for working with the command line arguments and options. 
   http://jakarta.apache.org/commons/logging.html 
 * dev-java/gnu-jaxp : GNU JAXP, a free implementation of SAX parser API, 
   DOM Level 2, Sun JAXP 1.1. http://www.gnu.org/software/classpathx/jaxp/ 
 * dev-java/velocity : A Java-based template engine that allows easy 
   creation/rendering of documents that format and present data. 
   http://jakarta.apache.org/velocity/ 
 * dev-perl/Convert-ASN1 : A Convert Perl Module 
   http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Convert/Convert-ASN1-0.16.readme 
 * media-gfx/gif2png : gif2png http://www.tuxedo.org/~esr/gif2png/ 
 * net-mail/vacation : automatic mail answering program 
   http://vacation.sourceforge.net/ 
 * sys-apps/reoback : Reoback Backup Solution 
   http://reoback.penguinsoup.org/ 
 * sys-devel/oskit : Building blocks for a x86 operating system. 
   http://www.cs.utah.edu/flux/oskit/ 
 * app-dicts/freedict-eng-fra :
 * app-dicts/freedict-fra-eng : 
 
Updates to notable packages
---------------------------
  
 * kde-base/kde - kde-3.1.1.ebuild;  
 * gnome-base/gnome - gnome-2.2.1.ebuild;  
 * sys-kernel/* - aa-sources-2.4.21_pre5-r1.ebuild; 
   aa-sources-2.4.21_pre5-r2.ebuild; development-sources-2.5.65.ebuild; 
   gentoo-sources-2.4.20-r2.ebuild; gs-sources-2.4.21_pre5-r1.ebuild; 
   mm-sources-2.5.65-r1.ebuild; mm-sources-2.5.65-r2.ebuild; 
   pfeifer-sources-2.4.20.1_pre1.ebuild; selinux-sources-2.4.20-r1.ebuild; 
   sparc-sources-2.4.20-r6.ebuild; xfs-sources-2.4.20-r1.ebuild; 
   xfs-sources-2.4.20-r2.ebuild; xfs-sources-2.4.20.ebuild;  
 * dev-db/mysql - mysql-3.23.56.ebuild;  
    
Updates to notable packages
---------------------------
  
 * sys-apps/portage - portage-2.0.47-r10.ebuild;  
 * x11-base/xfree - xfree-4.3.0-r1.ebuild;  
 * sys-kernel/* - ac-sources-2.4.21_pre5-r3.ebuild; 
   gaming-sources-2.4.20-r1.ebuild; lolo-sources-2.4.20.2_pre5.ebuild; 
   mm-sources-2.5.64-r4.ebuild; mm-sources-2.5.64-r5.ebuild; 
   mm-sources-2.5.64-r6.ebuild; wolk-sources-4.0_rc2.ebuild; 
   wolk-sources-4.0_rc3.ebuild;  
 * dev-db/mysql - mysql-4.0.11a-r1.ebuild;  
 * app-admin/gentoolkit - gentoolkit-0.1.19-r3.ebuild;  
    
New USE variables
-----------------
  
 * lirc - Adds support for lirc (Linux's Infra-Red Remote Control) 
    
===========
7. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[74]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. In the last 7 days, activity on the site has resulted 
in: 

 74. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 275 new bugs this week 
 * 294 bugs closed or resolved this week 
 * 9 previously closed bugs were reopened this week. 
 * 2161 total bugs currently marked 'new' 
 * 465 total bugs currently assigned to developers 
 
There are currently 3001 bugs open in bugzilla. Of these: 70 are labeled 
'blocker', 108 are labeled 'critical', and 228 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs this week are: 
 
 * Martin Schlemmer[75], with 16 closed bugs[76] 
 * Seemant Kulleen[77], with 14 closed bugs[78] 
 * The Gnome Team[79], with 13 closed bugs[80] 
 * Martin Holzer[81], with 13 closed bugs[82] 
 
 75. azarah@gentoo.org
 76. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&resolution=FIXED&assi
gned_to=azarah%40gentoo.org
 77. seemant@gentoo.org
 78. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&resolution=FIXED&assi
gned_to=seemant%40gentoo.org
 79. gnome@gentoo.org
 80. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&resolution=FIXED&assi
gned_to=gnome%40gentoo.org
 81. mholzer@gentoo.org
 82. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&resolution=FIXED&assi
gned_to=mholzer%40gentoo.org

New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs this 
week are: 
 
 * The x86 Kernel Team[83], with 19 new bugs[84] 
 * The Gnome Team[85], with 12 new bugs[86] 
 * Nick Hadaway[87], with 9 new bugs[88] 
 * Nicholas Jones[89], with 9 new bugs[90] 
 * Martin Holzer[91], with 7 new bugs[92] 
 
 83. x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 84. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&=&a
ssigned_to=x86-kernel%40gentoo.org
 85. gnome@gentoo.org
 86. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&=&a
ssigned_to=gnome%40gentoo.org
 87. raker@gentoo.org
 88. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&=&a
ssigned_to=raker%40gentoo.org
 89. carpaski@gentoo.org
 90. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&=&a
ssigned_to=carpaski%40gentoo.org
 91. mholzer@gentoo.org
 92. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-03-15&chfieldto=Now&=&a
ssigned_to=mholzer%40gentoo.org

    
==================
8. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Using tmpfs
 
This week's tip shows you how to make use of tmpfs to speed up access time 
for small temporary files. Tmpfs simulates a filesystem by supporting 
normal read/writes but the files are stored in memory. This makes access 
much faster. Note that files stored in tmpfs are not saved between 
reboots. Also, tmpfs is only recommended for systems with large amounts of 
memory. 
 
First make sure that tmpfs is enabled in your kernel. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 8.1:                                                       |
| Enabling tmpfs in the kernel                                            |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# cd /usr/src/linux                                                      |
|# make menuconfig                                                        |
|    Enable File Systems -->                                              |
|        [*] Virtual memory system support                                |
|        (Enable this option)                                             |
|                                                                         |
|# make dep && make clean bzImage                                         |
|                                                                         |
|Make sure /boot is mounted before this step                              |
|# cp /usr/src/linux/arch/i386/boot/bzImage /boot                         |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
/tmp is the most common place for temporary files. We will use tmpfs to 
mount /tmp 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 8.2:                                                       |
| Mounting /tmp with tmpfs                                                |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# mount -t tmpfs tmpfs /tmp                                              |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Now that /tmp is mounted, all you have to do is add the following to your 
/etc/fstab in order to have it load on boot. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 8.3:                                                       |
| Add the following line to your stab file                                |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|tmpfs   /tmp    tmpfs   defaults    0 0                                  |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
==========================
9. Moves, Adds and Changes
==========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 
 * none this week 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * Felix De Vliegher (Popsickle) -- LiveCD, KDE 
 * Philip Walls (malverian) -- media-gfx, distributed computing stuff 
 * Matthew Rickard (frogger) -- ProPolice 
 * Jeraimee Hughes (a.sleep) -- Gentoo Infrastructure 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * Mark Guertin (gerk) -- Retired as Gentoo/PPC Project Lead 
    
=====================
10. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[93].

 93. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
11. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[94] and help make GWN better.

 94. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
===================
12. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[95] 
 * English[96] 
 * German[97] 
 * French[98] 
 * Japanese[99] 
 * Italian[100] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[101] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[102] 
 * Spanish[103] 
 
 95. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 96. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 97. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 98. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 99. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 100. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 101. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 102. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 103. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml

  
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brice Burgess <nesta@iceburg.net> - Contributor
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Peter Sharp <mail@psharp.uklinux.net> - Contributor
Kim Tingkaer <kim@thinkit.dk> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Tom Van Laerhoven <tom.vanlaerhoven@luc.ac.be> - Dutch Translation
Peter Dijkstra <phj.dijkstra@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Bernieke <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Vincent Verleye <zu@pandora.be> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Ben De Groot <yngwin@xs4all.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jelmer Jaarsma <j.jaarsma@dordrecht.arbounie.nl> - Dutch Translation
Nicolas Ledez <nicolas.ledez@free.fr> - French Translation
Guillaume Plessis <gui@moolfreet.com> - French Translation
John Berry <anfini@free.fr> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Daniel Ketel <kage-chan@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Andy Hunne <andy@billydpro.com> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <gustavo@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Ricardo Jorge Louro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Pablo Pita Leira <pablo.leira@pitagoral.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Tirant <tirant@menta.net> - Spanish Translation
Jaime Freire <jfreire@ya.com> - Spanish Translation
Lucas Sallovitz <krusty_ar@yahoo.com> - Spanish Translation

