---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of August 11th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Gentoo Linux at Linux World Expo 
 * Gentoo Documentation Project looking for new lead Dutch translator 
    
Gentoo Linux at Linux World Expo
--------------------------------
  
Figure 1.1: From left to right, developers Kurt Lieber, Jason Wever, 
Daniel Robbins, Seemant Kulleen, Corey Shields, and user Randy Sofia
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030811_lwe1.jpg
 
Figure 1.2: From left to right, Randy Sofia, Jason Wever, user Arlinton 
Bourne, Corey Shields, Daniel Robbins, and a visitor to the booth
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030811_lwe2.jpg
 
Figure 1.3: From left to right, Jason Wever, Randy Sofia, Daniel Robbins, 
Arlinton Bourne, Benjamin Coles, and Seemant Kulleen in front
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030811_lwe3.jpg

Last week Gentoo Linux was represented at LinuxWorld Expo in the .org 
pavilion of the expo floor. Gentoo Linux 1.4 was released on the first day 
of the expo, and 300 CDs were given away in the first 4 hours of the 
show. CDs were given away for Pentium III, Pentium 4, Athlon XP, and PPC 
architectures. Everyone who stopped by the booth was given an enthusiastic 
description about Gentoo as well as flyers on Gentoo Linux, the Gentoo 
Clustering Project, and Hardened Gentoo. 
 
There were many demonstrations at the booth. A couple of x86 boxes were 
setup running a live beta demonstration of the upcoming game Savage[1] 
running on Gentoo. Gentoo Linux on PPC was represented with both a Mac G3 
and an iBook. Sun Microsystems was nice to loan us a Blade 150 that was 
loaded up and later added to the demonstrations. There were also Gentoo 
Clustering demonstrations (running remotely, shown locally) as well as a 
running Hardened Gentoo box. 

 1. http://www.s2games.com/
 
One of the best things to come from the expo was the opportunity to for
developers to meet some of the Gentoo user base and hear of experiences 
and praise. A lot of faces were matched with IRC nicknames, and new 
relationships were made with Gentoo users and other groups who were at the 
Expo. 
 
A raffle was held at the end of the conference. A Pentium 4 system was won 
by Nathan Chilton, and an Epson printer was won by Muthuvale Shanmugam. 
Congratulations to our raffle winners! 
    
Gentoo Documentation Project looking for new lead Dutch translator
------------------------------------------------------------------
  
Our current lead Dutch translator, Sven Vermeulen, is resigning in order 
to concentrate on his responsibilities as Operational Manager for the 
Gentoo Documentation project; we'd like to thank Sven for his contribution 
to the Dutch team. We're now looking for a new Dutch lead translator to 
take over his position. Responsibilities would include coordinating the 
translations, verifying the translated version, and committing it to CVS 
so it can be viewed on the website. A solid reading knowledge of both 
written Dutch and written English is a requirement; familiarity with XML 
and CVS would be helpful but can be acquired after taking the position if 
necessary. Interested parties should send an email to Sven[2]. 

 2. swift@gentoo.org
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
There were no Security announcements this week
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted in the past week: 
 
 * Netfilter Security Advisory: Conntrack list_del() DoS[3] 
 * Netfilter Security Advisory: NAT Remote DOS (SACK mangle)[4] 
 * Buffer overflow + Sparc crashes in TightVNC 1.2.8[5] 
 3. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26106
 4. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=26105
 5. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=25982
    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
User stories is on hiatus this week. Remember to send us[6] your bizarre, 
hilarious, or incredible Gentoo stories so they can be featured here! 

 6. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Featured Developer is on hiatus this week. 
   
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forum
---------
  
Burning Without SCSI Emulations
 
With the release of cdrtools 2.0 users can ditch the scsi emulation in the 
kernel config, and still write those CD-Rs. Check out this thread for the
specifics on how to set it up. 
 
 * Kernel SCSI emulation for CD burning - the truth[7] 
 7. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=20175
    
gentoo-user
-----------
  
Gentoo on Servers 
 
Mailing list contributor Michel Dicroci asked a question that many Linux 
server SysAdmins are asking: "Is Gentoo stable enough for a server?". The 
resulting discussion resounded with a general "yes", but also branched 
into proper use of the ~arch flags, as well as other tips for running a 
Gentoo Linux server. Thread  here[8]. 

 8. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/42131
 
GLIS Project is Hiring 
 
Bound to be one of the "next big things", the Gentoo Linux Installation 
Script--or GLIS for short--is looking for GUI programmers. The discussion 
started out as a simple "want ad", but in typical Open-Source fashion 
turned into a spawning pool of suggestions and ideas of how to make the 
project even better; making it one of the most active topics on 
Gentoo-User this week. Check out the GLIS project[9], then read the 
thread[10]. 

 9. http://glis.sourceforge.net/
 10. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/42199
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
How conservative are you?
 
Jani Monoses posed the  question [11] about how liberally package masks 
are dispensed. What resulted what various opinions on what package masking 
actually means. 

 11. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/10888/
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Gentoo Linux in another Brazilian magazine
------------------------------------------
  
The Brazilian magazine PcMaster, a monthly publication about Information 
Technology mostly geared towards experienced users, is featuring Gentoo 
Linux in its latest issue[12]. The latest issue features a Gentoo LiveCD 
with KDE 3.1.2, XFree86 4.3.0, Totem, Kernel 2.4.20, Gnome 2.2.1, Gxine, 
and many other apps ready to run off the CD. 

 12. http://www.europanet.com.br/euro2003/index.php?cat_id=60&pag_id=10910
    
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
two weeks:
----------
  
 * app-admin/addpatches: patch management script[13] 
 * app-admin/ccze: A flexible and fast logfile colorizer[14] 
 * app-admin/gentoolkit: Collection of unofficial administration scripts 
for Gentoo[15] 
 * app-admin/gnomesu: GNOME2 interface to su, previously xsu and xsu2[16] 
 * app-admin/gtkdiskfree: Graphical tool to show free disk space[17] 
 * app-admin/logrotate: Rotates, compresses, and mails system logs[18] 
 * app-admin/mirrorselect: Tool to help select distfiles mirrors for 
Gentoo[19] 
 * app-admin/pwgen: Password Generator[20] 
 * app-admin/pydf: Enhanced df with colors[21] 
 * app-admin/sus: allows certain users to run commands as root or other 
users[22] 
 * app-admin/tmpwatch: Utility recursively searches through specified 
directories and removes files which have not been accessed in a specified 
period of time.[23] 
 * app-admin/tripwire: Open Source File Integrity Checker and IDS[24] 
 * app-admin/ufed: Gentoo Linux USE flags editor[25] 
 * app-admin/usermin: a web-based user administration interface[26] 
 * app-admin/webalizer: Webserver log file analyzer[27] 
 * app-admin/zope-config: A Gentoo Zope multi-Instance configure tool 
 * app-arch/bsdsfv: BSDSFV: All-in-one SFV checksum utility[28] 
 * app-arch/dpkg: Package maintenance system for Debian[29] 
 * app-arch/flexbackup: Flexible backup script using perl[30] 
 * app-arch/rpm: Red Hat Package Management Utils[31] 
 * app-arch/rpm2targz: Convert a .rpm file to a .tar.gz archive[32] 
 * app-arch/unzip: Unzipper for pkzip-compressed files[33] 
 * app-benchmarks/bonnie++: Hard drive bottleneck testing benchmark 
suite[34] 
 * app-benchmarks/stress: Imposes stressful loads on different aspects of 
the system.[35] 
 * app-cdr/cdrdao: Burn CDs in disk-at-once mode -- with optional GUI 
frontend[36] 
 * app-cdr/cdrtools: A set of tools for CDR drives, including 
cdrecord.[37] 
 * app-cdr/k3b: K3b, KDE CD Writing Software[38] 
 * app-cdr/xcdroast: Menu based front-end to mkisofs and cdrecord[39] 
 * app-crypt/gpg-ringmgr: GPG Keyring Manager to handle large GPG keyrings 
more easily[40] 
 * app-crypt/keylookup: A tool to fetch PGP keys from keyservers[41] 
 * app-crypt/kth-krb: Kerberos 4 implementation from KTH[42] 
 * app-crypt/mcrypt: replacement of the old unix crypt(1)[43] 
 * app-crypt/mit-krb5: MIT Kerberos V[44] 
 * app-crypt/pinentry: collection of simple PIN or passphrase entry 
dialogs which utilize the Assuan protocol[45] 
 * app-dicts/ispell-cs: The Czech dictionary for ispell[46] 
 * app-dicts/ispell-fi: Finnish dictionary for ispell[47] 
 * app-dicts/ispell-it: Loris Palmerini - Italian dictionary for 
ispell[48] 
 * app-dicts/ispell-lt: Lithuanian dictionary for ispell[49] 
 * app-dicts/ispell-ru: Alexander I. Lebedev's Russian dictionary for 
ispell.[50] 
 * app-doc/selflinux: german-language hypertext tutorial about Linux[51] 
 * app-editors/elvis: A vi/ex clone[52] 
 * app-editors/emacs: An incredibly powerful, extensible text editor[53] 
 * app-editors/gvim: Graphical Vim 
 * app-editors/klat: A Latex Editor and TeX shell for KDE 3[54] 
 * app-editors/nvi: Vi clone[55] 
 * app-editors/videoteco: Enhanced Visual TECO clone[56] 
 * app-editors/vile: VI Like Emacs -- yet another full-featured vi 
clone[57] 
 * app-editors/vim: Vi IMproved! 
 * app-editors/vim-core: vim, gvim and kvim shared files 
 * app-editors/xemacs: XEmacs is a highly customizable open source text 
editor and application development system.[58] 
 * app-emacs/apel: A Portable Emacs Library is a library for making 
portable Emacs Lisp programs.[59] 
 * app-emacs/erc: ERC - The Emacs IRC Client[60] 
 * app-emacs/flim: A library to provide basic features about message 
representation or encoding -- FLIM[61] 
 * app-emacs/liece: Liece is a client implementation of IRC (Internet 
Relay Chat, RFC 1459).[62] 
 * app-emacs/mew: great MIME mail reader for Emacs/XEmacs[63] 
 * app-emacs/semi: a library to provide MIME feature for GNU Emacs -- 
SEMI[64] 
 * app-emulation/atari800: Atari 800 emulator[65] 
 * app-emulation/basiliskII: BasiliskII Macintosh Emulator[66] 
 * app-emulation/blight-glN64: An audio plugin for the mupen64 N64 
emulator[67] 
 * app-emulation/blight-tr64gl: An audio plugin for the mupen64 N64 
emulator[68] 
 * app-emulation/blight-uhleaudio: An audio plugin for the mupen64 N64 
emulator[69] 
 * app-emulation/blight_input: An input plugin for the mupen64 N64 
emulator[70] 
 * app-emulation/dosbox: DOS emulator[71] 
 * app-emulation/dosbox-cvs: DOS Emulator[72] 
 * app-emulation/dosemu: DOS Emulator[73] 
 * app-emulation/epsxe: ePSXe Playstation Emulator[74] 
 * app-emulation/frodo: An excellent Commodore 64 Emulator[75] 
 * app-emulation/gens: A Sega Genesis/CD/32X emulator[76] 
 * app-emulation/gngeo: A NeoGeo emulator[77] 
 * app-emulation/hatari: Atari ST emulator[78] 
 * app-emulation/mekanix: SG-1000, SC-3000, SF-7000, SSC, SMS, GG, COLECO, 
and OMV emulator[79] 
 * app-emulation/nestra: NES emulation for Linux/x86[80] 
 * app-emulation/nwwine: A special version of wine for the Never Winter 
Nights toolkit[81] 
 * app-emulation/qmamecat: QT mame catalog and frontend[82] 
 * app-emulation/tuxnes: emulator for the 8-bit Nintendo Entertainment 
System[83] 
 * app-emulation/vmware-workstation: Emulate a complete PC on your PC 
without the usual performance overhead of most emulators[84] 
 * app-emulation/wine: free implementation of Windows(tm) on Unix - CVS 
snapshot[85] 
 * app-emulation/winex: Winex - fake ebuild![86] 
 * app-emulation/winex-cvs: Winex - fake ebuild![87] 
 * app-emulation/xmame: Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator for X11[88] 
 * app-emulation/xmess: Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator for X11[89] 
 * app-games/0verkill: A bloody 2D action deathmatch-like game in 
ASCII-ART[90] 
 * app-games/4stattack: Connect-4 game, single or network multiplayer[91] 
 * app-games/aaut: ascii mode unreal tournament[92] 
 * app-games/abuse_sdl: port of Abuse by Crack Dot Com[93] 
 * app-games/ace: DJ Delorie's Ace of Penguins solitaire games[94] 
 * app-games/adom: Ancient Domains Of Mystery rogue-like game[95] 
 * app-games/americas-army: America's Army: Operations - military 
simulations by the U.S. Army to provide civilians with insights on 
soldiering[96] 
 * app-games/anaglyph-stereo-quake: play Quake in 3D with red - blue 
glasses[97] 
 * app-games/armagetron: armagetron: 3d tron lightcycles, just like the 
movie[98] 
 * app-games/ascii-invaders: Space invaders clone, using ncurses 
library[99] 
 * app-games/atanks: Worms and Scorched Earth-like game[100] 
 * app-games/barrage: A violent point-and-click shooting game[101] 
 * app-games/billardgl: A OpenGL billards game[102] 
 * app-games/blackshades-cvs: you control a psychic bodyguard, and try to 
protect the VIP[103] 
 * app-games/bumprace: simple arcade racing game[104] 
 * app-games/cannonsmash: 3D tabletennis game[105] 
 * app-games/codebreaker: mastermind style game[106] 
 * app-games/construo: 2d construction toy with objects that react on 
physical forces[107] 
 * app-games/crack-attack: Addictive OpenGL-based block game[108] 
 * app-games/crossfire-client: Client for the nethack-style but more in 
the line of UO[109] 
 * app-games/d2x: Descent 2[110] 
 * app-games/daemonshogi: A GTK+ based, simple shogi (Japanese chess) 
program[111] 
 * app-games/descent3: Descent 3 - 3-Dimensional indoor/outdoor spaceship 
combat[112] 
 * app-games/doomlegacy: Doom legacy, THE doom port[113] 
 * app-games/eboard: chess interface for POSIX systems[114] 
 * app-games/enemy-territory: Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Enemy 
Territory - standalone multi-player game based on Return to Castle 
Wolfenstein[115] 
 * app-games/fakk2: Heavy Metal: FAKK2 - 3D third-person action shooter 
based on the Heavy Metal comics/movies[116] 
 * app-games/falconseye: A graphical version of nethack[117] 
 * app-games/flightgear: Open Source Flight Simulator[118] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod: The notorious fortune program[119] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-gentoo-dev: Fortune database of #gentoo-dev 
quotes[120] 
 * app-games/freecnc: SDL-rewrite of the classical real time strategy hit 
Command & Conquer[121] 
 * app-games/freecraft: realtime strategy game engine for games like 
Warcraft/Starcraft/etc.[122] 
 * app-games/freedroidrpg: Freedroid - a Paradroid clone[123] 
 * app-games/freelords: Free Warlords clone[124] 
 * app-games/gmudix: An improved version of MUDix, a MUD client for the 
Linux console. It is designed to run as an X application, and was 
developed with GTK+ 2.0. gMUDix has all the features of MUDix and more, 
including ANSI color mapping, aliasing, macros, paths, tab completions, 
timers, triggers, variables, and an easy-to-use script language.[125] 
 * app-games/gnocatan: A clone of the popular board game The Settlers of 
Catan[126] 
 * app-games/gracer: 3D motor sports simulator[127] 
 * app-games/gtkatlantic: Monopoly-like game that works with the monopd 
server[128] 
 * app-games/gtkboard: Board games system[129] 
 * app-games/halflife-adminmod: give people admin access (and a looooooot 
more)[130] 
 * app-games/halflife-metamod: plugin manager for Half-Life server[131] 
 * app-games/halflife-ns: Halflife Natural Selection mod ... kill aliens 
or marines[132] 
 * app-games/halflife-server: Halflife Linux Server[133] 
 * app-games/heavygear2: Heavy Gear II - 3D first-person Mechanized 
Assault[134] 
 * app-games/hlstats: real-time player rankings/statistics for 
half-life[135] 
 * app-games/ivan: Rogue-like game with SDL graphics[136] 
 * app-games/jumpnbump: a funny multiplayer game about cute little fluffy 
bunnies[137] 
 * app-games/kiki: Fun 3D puzzle game using SDL/OpenGL[138] 
 * app-games/mindless: play collectable/trading card games (Magic: the 
Gathering and possibly others) against other people[139] 
 * app-games/monopd: server for atlantik games[140] 
 * app-games/moon-buggy: A simple console game, where you drive a car 
across the moon's surface[141] 
 * app-games/nethack: The ultimate old-school single player dungeon 
exploration game[142] 
 * app-games/netris: Classic networked version of T*tris[143] 
 * app-games/neverball: Clone of Super Monkey Ball using SDL/OpenGL[144] 
 * app-games/njam: Multi or single-player network Pacman-like game in 
SDL[145] 
 * app-games/noegnud-nethack: an alternate 2D/3D graphical user interface 
for NetHack[146] 
 * app-games/noegnud-slashem: an alternate 2D/3D graphical user interface 
for SLASH'EM[147] 
 * app-games/nprquake-sdl: quake1 utilizing a hand drawn engine[148] 
 * app-games/nwn: Never Winter Nights[149] 
 * app-games/openglad: An SDL clone of Gladiator, a classic RPG game[150] 
 * app-games/parsec: Parsec - there is no safe distance[151] 
 * app-games/pcgen: D&D character generator[152] 
 * app-games/poopmup: You are now free to fly around the city and poop on 
passers-by[153] 
 * app-games/powermanga: An arcade 2D shoot-em-up game[154] 
 * app-games/quake1: The original Quake engine straight from id ![155] 
 * app-games/quake3: Quake III Arena - 3rd installment of the classic id 
3D first-person shooter[156] 
 * app-games/quakeforge: A new 3d engine based off of id Softwares's 
legendary Quake and QuakeWorld game engine[157] 
 * app-games/race: OpenGL Racing Game[158] 
 * app-games/racer-bin: A car simulation game focusing on realism, in the 
style of Grand Prix Legends[159] 
 * app-games/raptor2: space shoot-em-up game[160] 
 * app-games/red-blue-quake2: red-blue Quake II ! play quake2 w/3d glasses 
![161] 
 * app-games/rocksndiamonds: A Boulderdash clone[162] 
 * app-games/rott: Rise of the Triad for Linux![163] 
 * app-games/rtcw: Return to Castle Wolfenstein - Long awaited sequel to 
Wolfenstein 3D[164] 
 * app-games/scorched3d: Multi-player tank battle in 3D (OpenGL)[165] 
 * app-games/scummvm: Reimplementation of the SCUMM game engine used in 
Lucasarts adventures[166] 
 * app-games/searchandrescue: aircraft based rescue simulator[167] 
 * app-games/searchtool: server browser for Internet games[168] 
 * app-games/seb: Clone of Super Monkey Ball using SDL/OpenGL[169] 
 * app-games/sjeng: Console based chess interface[170] 
 * app-games/soccar: Soccer with Cars[171] 
 * app-games/solarwolf: action/arcade recreation of SolarFox[172] 
 * app-games/soldieroffortune: Soldier of Fortune - First-person shooter 
based on the mercinary trade[173] 
 * app-games/spacearyarya-kxl: A 2D/3D shooting game[174] 
 * app-games/spacehulk: A boardgame in the world of Warhammer 40k[175] 
 * app-games/stoned: 3D curling simulation[176] 
 * app-games/strikeforce: A UT addon where you fight terrorists as part of 
an elite strikeforce[177] 
 * app-games/tenebrae: adds stencil shadows and per pixel lights to 
quake[178] 
 * app-games/tetrix: A GNU TetriNET server[179] 
 * app-games/tome: A roguelike game, where you can save the world from 
Morgoth and battle evil (or become evil ;])[180] 
 * app-games/tuxkart: A racing game starring Tux, the linux penguin[181] 
 * app-games/tuxmathscrabble: math-version of the popular board game for 
children 4-10[182] 
 * app-games/umodpack: portable and useful [un]packer for Unreal 
Tournament's Umod files[183] 
 * app-games/unreal: Futuristic FPS (a hack that runs on top of Unreal 
Tournament)[184] 
 * app-games/unreal-tournament: Futuristic FPS[185] 
 * app-games/unreal-tournament-bonuspacks: Futuristic FPS (bonus 
packs)[186] 
 * app-games/unreal-tournament-goty: Futuristic FPS (Game Of The Year 
edition)[187] 
 * app-games/unreal-tournament-infiltration: Realistic mod for Unreal 
Tournament[188] 
 * app-games/ut2003: Unreal Tournament 2003 - Sequel to the 1999 Game of 
the Year multi-player first-person shooter[189] 
 * app-games/ut2003-demo: Unreal Tournament 2003 Demo[190] 
 * app-games/xarchon: modelled after the golden oldie Archon game[191] 
 * app-games/xgalaga: Clone of the game Galaga[192] 
 * app-games/ytin: yet another TinTin++[193] 
 * app-gnustep/affiche: Affiche allows people to 'stick' notes[194] 
 * app-gnustep/gworkspace: GNUstep workspace manager[195] 
 * app-gnustep/terminal: GNUstep terminal emulator[196] 
 * app-i18n/canna: A client-server based Kana-Kanji conversion system[197] 
 * app-i18n/jfbterm: A Japanized framebuffer terminal with Multilingual 
Enhancement[198] 
 * app-i18n/jless-iso254: Japanese enabled pager -- less-iso254[199] 
 * app-i18n/manpages-fr: A somewhat comprehensive collection of french 
Linux man pages[200] 
 * app-i18n/manpages-ru: A collection of Russian translations of Linux 
manual pages.[201] 
 * app-i18n/multiskkserv: SKK server that handles multiple 
dictionaries[202] 
 * app-i18n/qkc: Quick KANJI code Converter[203] 
 * app-i18n/scim: Smart Common Input Method (SCIM) is a Input Method (IM) 
development platform[204] 
 * app-i18n/skk-jisyo: Jisyo (dictionary) files for the SKK Japanese-input 
software[205] 
 * app-i18n/skk-jisyo-cdb: Dictionary files for the SKK Japanese-input 
software in CDB format[206] 
 * app-i18n/skk-jisyo-extra: Extra SKK dictionaries in plain text and cdb 
format[207] 
 * app-i18n/skkserv: Dictionary server for the SKK Japanese-input 
software[208] 
 * app-i18n/xsim: A simple and fast GB and BIG5 Chinese XIM server.[209] 
 * app-misc/Welcome2L:  Welcome to Linux, ANSI login logo for Linux[210] 
 * app-misc/boxes: boxes draws any kind of boxes around your text![211] 
 * app-misc/colordiff: Colorizes output of diff[212] 
 * app-misc/fdutils: utilities for configuring and debugging the Linux 
floppy driver[213] 
 * app-misc/figlet: program for making large letters out of ordinary 
text[214] 
 * app-misc/gcal: The GNU Calendar - a replacement for cal[215] 
 * app-misc/geekcode: Geek code generator[216] 
 * app-misc/gfontview: Fontviewer for PostScript Type 1 and TrueType[217] 
 * app-misc/glabels: Program for creating labels and business cards[218] 
 * app-misc/gpsdrive: displays GPS position on a map[219] 
 * app-misc/gtktalog: The GTK disk catalog.[220] 
 * app-misc/jail: Jail Chroot Project is a tool that builds a chrooted 
environment and automagically configures and builds all the required 
files, directories and libraries[221] 
 * app-misc/linux_logo:  Displays an ansi or an ascii logo and some system 
information.[222] 
 * app-misc/mc: GNU Midnight Commander cli-based file manager[223] 
 * app-misc/mtoolsfm: easy floppy-access under linux / UNIX[224] 
 * app-misc/oneko: A cat (or dog) which chases the mouse around the 
screen[225] 
 * app-misc/tdl: Command line To Do List manager[226] 
 * app-misc/xhkeys: assign particular actions to any key or key 
combination[227] 
 * app-misc/xnc: file manager for X Window system very similar to Norton 
Commander[228] 
 * app-office/gaby: A small personal databases manager for Linux[229] 
 * app-office/lyx: WYSIWYM frontend for LaTeX[230] 
 * app-office/mrproject: Project manager for Gnome2[231] 
 * app-office/oooqs: OpenOffice.org Quickstarter, runs in the KDE 
SystemTray[232] 
 * app-office/openoffice: OpenOffice.org, a full office productivity 
suite.[233] 
 * app-office/openoffice-bin: OpenOffice productivity suite[234] 
 * app-sci/bioperl: collection of tools for bioinformatics, genomics and 
life science research[235] 
 * app-sci/biopython: Biopython - python module for Computational 
Moelcular Biology[236] 
 * app-sci/blas: Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms[237] 
 * app-sci/calcoo: scientific calculator designed to provide maximum 
usability[238] 
 * app-sci/chemtool: program for drawing organic molecules[239] 
 * app-sci/euler: Mathematical programming environment[240] 
 * app-sci/ghemical: Ghemical supports both quantum-mechanics 
(semi-empirical and ab initio) models and molecular mechanics models 
(there is an experimental Tripos 5.2-like force field for organic 
molecules). Also a tool for reduced protein models is included. Geometry 
optimization, molecular dynamics and a large set of visualization tools 
are currently available.[241] 
 * app-sci/hmmer: HMMER - Biological sequence analysis with profile 
HMMs[242] 
 * app-sci/kconvert: Converting Toolbetween Metric and Imperial[243] 
 * app-sci/kmatplot: gnuplot-like tool for plotting data sets in either 
two or three dimensions[244] 
 * app-sci/lapack: Linear Algebra PACKage for scientists, engineers, and 
mathematicians. This contains the libraries for creating programs that use 
LAPACK.[245] 
 * app-sci/maxima: Free computer algebra environment, based on 
Macsyma[246] 
 * app-sci/mpqc: The Massively Parallel Quantum Chemistry Program[247] 
 * app-sci/predict: Satellite tracking and orbital prediction.[248] 
 * app-sci/pymol: A Python-extensible molecular graphics system.[249] 
 * app-sci/raster3d: a set of tools for generating high quality raster 
images of proteins or other molecules[250] 
 * app-sci/tbass: Balsa is both a framework for synthesising asynchronous 
hardware systems and the language for describing such systems[251] 
 * app-sci/tclspice: Spice circuit simulator with TCL scipting language 
and GUI[252] 
 * app-sci/xdrawchem: a molecular structure drawing program[253] 
 * app-shells/rssh: restricted shell for SSHd[254] 
 * app-shells/sandboxshell: launch a sandboxed shell ... useful for 
debugging ebuilds[255] 
 * app-text/a2ps: Any to PostScript filter[256] 
 * app-text/aspell: A spell checker replacement for ispell[257] 
 * app-text/c2ps: Generates a beautified ps document from a source file 
(c/c++)[258] 
 * app-text/dasher: information-efficient text-entry interface, driven by 
natural continuous pointing gestures[259] 
 * app-text/dgs: A Ghostscript based DPS server[260] 
 * app-text/diction: Diction and style checkers for english and german 
texts[261] 
 * app-text/ding: Tk based dictionary (German-English) (incl. dictionary 
itself)[262] 
 * app-text/ghostscript: ESP Ghostscript -- an enhanced version of GNU 
Ghostscript with better printer support[263] 
 * app-text/ghostview: A PostScript viewer for X11[264] 
 * app-text/gtkspell: spell library for GTK2[265] 
 * app-text/gv: standard ghostscript frontend used by programs like 
LyX[266] 
 * app-text/ispell: fast screen-oriented spelling checker[267] 
 * app-text/new: template system useful when used with a simple text 
editor (like vi)[268] 
 * app-text/noweb: a literate programming tool, lighter than web[269] 
 * app-text/openjade: Jade is an implemetation of DSSSL - an ISO standard 
for formatting SGML and XML documents[270] 
 * app-text/opensp: A free, object-oriented toolkit for SGML parsing and 
entity management[271] 
 * app-text/recode: Convert files between various character sets.[272] 
 * app-text/sloccount: tools for counting Source Lines of Code (SLOC) for 
a large number of languages[273] 
 * app-text/tetex: a complete TeX distribution[274] 
 * app-text/tree: Lists directories recursively, and produces an indented 
listing of files.[275] 
 * app-text/uudeview: uu, xx, base64, binhex decoder[276] 
 * dev-cpp/gtkmm: C++ interface for GTK+[277] 
 * dev-cpp/libxmlpp: C++ wrapper for the libxml XML parser library[278] 
 * dev-db/cdb: fast, reliable, simple package for creating and reading 
constant databases[279] 
 * dev-db/mysql: A fast, multi-threaded, multi-user SQL database 
server.[280] 
 * dev-db/mysql++: C++ API interface to the MySQL database[281] 
 * dev-db/phpmyadmin: Web-based administration for MySQL database in 
PHP[282] 
 * dev-db/postgis: adds support for geographic objects to PostgreSQL[283] 
 * dev-db/postgresql: sophisticated Object-Relational DBMS[284] 
 * dev-db/tora: TOra - Toolkit For Oracle[285] 
 * dev-db/unixODBC: ODBC Interface for Linux[286] 
 * dev-games/cel: A game entity layer based on Crystal Space[287] 
 * dev-games/ode: Open Dynamics Engine SDK[288] 
 * dev-haskell/haddock: A documentation tool for Haskell[289] 
 * dev-java/ant: Java-based build tool similar to 'make' that uses XML 
configuration files.[290] 
 * dev-java/bcel: The Byte Code Engineering Library: analyze, create, 
manipulate Java class files[291] 
 * dev-java/blackdown-jdk: Blackdown Java Development Kit ${PV}[292] 
 * dev-java/commons-dbcp: Jakarta component providing database connection 
pooling API[293] 
 * dev-java/dom4j: easy to use, open source library for working with XML, 
XPath and XSLT on the Java platform using the Java Collections Framework 
and with full support for DOM, SAX and JAXP.[294] 
 * dev-java/java-sdk-docs: Javadoc for Java SDK version 1.3.1[295] die 
"Please download ${At} from ${HOMEPAGE} and move it to ${DISTDIR}" 
 * dev-java/javamail: A Java-based framework to build multiplatform mail 
and messaging applications.[296] einfo " 1. Visit ${HOMEPAGE}" 
 * dev-java/oro: A set of text-processing Java classes that provide Perl5 
compatible regular expressions, AWK-like regular expressions, glob 
expressions, and utility classes for performing substitutions, splits, 
filtering filenames, etc.[297] 
 * dev-java/sun-j2sdk: Sun's J2SE Development Kit, version 1.4.0 (From 
sources)[298] eerror "Please download ${SRC_SUNMOTIF} from ${HOMEPAGE} to 
${DISTDIR}" eerror "Please download ${SRC_MOZHEADERS} from ${HOMEPAGE} to 
${DISTDIR}" eerror "Please download ${SRC_JAVA} from ${HOMEPAGE} to 
${DISTDIR}" 
 * dev-java/sun-jdk: Sun's J2SE Development Kit, version 1.4.1_04[299] die 
"Please download ${At} from ${HOMEPAGE} (select the \"Linux 
self-extracting file\" package format of the SDK) and move it to 
${DISTDIR}" 
 * dev-java/xerces: The next generation of high performance, fully 
compliant XML parsers in the Apache Xerces family[300] 
 * dev-java/xom: XOM is a new XML object model. It is a tree-based API for 
processing XML with Java that strives for correctness and simplicity.[301] 
 * dev-lang/blassic: classic Basic interpreter[302] 
 * dev-lang/cm3-bin: Critical Mass Modula-3 compiler (binary version)[303] 
 * dev-lang/erlang: Erlang programming language, runtime environment, and 
large collection of libraries[304] 
 * dev-lang/ghc: The Glasgow Haskell Compiler[305] 
 * dev-lang/ghc-bin: Glasgow Haskell Compiler[306] 
 * dev-lang/helium: Helium (for learning Haskell)[307] 
 * dev-lang/nhc98: Haskell 98 compiler[308] 
 * dev-lang/ocaml: fast modern type-inferring functional programming 
language descended from the ML (Meta Language) family[309] 
 * dev-lang/perl: Larry Wall's Practical Extraction and Reporting 
Language[310] 
 * dev-lang/python: A really great language[311] 
 * dev-lang/ruby: An object-oriented scripting language[312] 
 * dev-lang/sather: object oriented language designed to be simple, 
efficient, safe, flexible and non-proprietary[313] 
 * dev-lang/smalltalkx: The non-commercial version of a complete 
implementation of the Smalltalk programming language and development 
environment[314] 
 * dev-lang/stratego: Stratego term-rewriting language[315] 
 * dev-lang/tinycobol: COBOL for linux[316] 
 * dev-lang/tk: Tk Widget Set[317] 
 * dev-libs/DirectFB: Thin library on top of the Linux framebuffer 
devices[318] 
 * dev-libs/aterm: ATerm tree-handling library[319] 
 * dev-libs/atlas: Automatically Tuned Linear Algebra Software (BLAS 
implementation)[320] 
 * dev-libs/boehm-gc: The Boehm-Demers-Weiser conservative garbage 
collector can be used as a garbage collecting replacement for C malloc or 
C++ new. It is also used by a number of programming language 
implementations that use C as intermediate code.[321] 
 * dev-libs/cyrus-imap-dev: Developer support for the Cyrus IMAP 
Server[322] 
 * dev-libs/cyrus-sasl: The Cyrus SASL (Simple Authentication and Security 
Layer)[323] 
 * dev-libs/glib: The GLib library of C routines[324] 
 * dev-libs/gmp: Library for arithmetic on arbitrary precision integers, 
rational numbers, and floating-point numbers[325] 
 * dev-libs/libIDL: CORBA tree builder[326] 
 * dev-libs/libdaemon: SRC_URI="${HOMEPAGE}/${P}.tar.gz"Simple library for 
creating daemon processes in C[327] 
 * dev-libs/libf2c: Library that converts FORTRAN to C source.[328] 
 * dev-libs/libgcrypt: general purpose crypto library based on the code 
used in GnuPG[329] 
 * dev-libs/libmcrypt: libmcrypt is a library that provides uniform 
interface to access several encryption algorithms.[330] 
 * dev-libs/libsigc++: The GLib library of C routines[331] 
 * dev-libs/libtomcrypt: modular and portable cryptographic toolkit[332] 
 * dev-libs/libtommath: highly optimized and portable routines for integer 
based number theoretic applications[333] 
 * dev-libs/libusb: Userspace access to USB devices[334] 
 * dev-libs/libxml2: Version 2 of the library to manipulate XML files[335] 
 * dev-libs/libxslt: XSLT libraries and tools[336] 
 * dev-libs/log4cpp: library of C++ classes for flexible logging to files, 
syslog, IDSA and other destinations[337] 
 * dev-libs/memcached-api-perl: Perl API for memcached[338] 
 * dev-libs/memcached-api-php: PHP API for memcached[339] 
 * dev-libs/nspr: Netscape Portable Runtime[340] 
 * dev-libs/nss: Mozilla's Netscape Security Services Library that 
implements PKI support[341] 
 * dev-libs/openssl: Toolkit for SSL v2/v3 and TLS v1[342] 
 * dev-libs/progsreiserfs: library for accessing and manipulating reiserfs 
partitions[343] 
 * dev-libs/pwlib: Libs needed for GnomeMeeting[344] 
 * dev-libs/sucs: The Simple Utility Classes are C++ libraries of common 
C-based algorithms and libraries[345] 
 * dev-libs/zthread: platform-independent object-oriented threading 
architecture[346] 
 * dev-lisp/plt: PLT Scheme, including DrScheme, mzscheme, mred, and 
mzc[347] 
 * dev-lisp/sbcl: Steel Bank Common Lisp[348] 
 * dev-perl/Archive-Rar: Archive::Rar - Interface with the rar 
command[349] 
 * dev-perl/BSD-Resource: Perl module for BSD process resource limit and 
priority functions[350] 
 * dev-perl/DB_File: A Berkeley DB Support Perl Module[351] 
 * dev-perl/Digest-Nilsimsa: Digest::Nilsimsa - Perl version of Nilsimsa 
code[352] 
 * dev-perl/File-Spec: Handling files and directories portably[353] 
 * dev-perl/File-Temp: File::Temp can be used to create and open temporary 
files in a safe way.[354] 
 * dev-perl/Finance-Quote: The Perl Finance-Quote Module[355] 
 * dev-perl/Getopt-Mixed: Getopt::Mixed is used for parsing mixed 
options[356] 
 * dev-perl/HTML-Clean: Cleans up HTML code for web browsers, not 
humans[357] 
 * dev-perl/HTML-SimpleParse: A bare-bones HTML parser, similar to 
HTML::Parser, but with a couple important distinctions.[358] 
 * dev-perl/ImageSize: The Perl Image-Size Module[359] 
 * dev-perl/Locale-gettext: A Perl module for accessing the GNU locale 
utilities[360] 
 * dev-perl/Net-DNS: Perl Net::DNS - Perl DNS Resolver Module[361] 
 * dev-perl/PDL: PDL Perl Module[362] 
 * dev-perl/Parse-Yapp: Compiles yacc-like LALR grammars to generate Perl 
OO parser modules[363] 
 * dev-perl/Safe: Compile and execute code in restricted compartments[364] 
 * dev-perl/Storable: The Perl Storable Module[365] 
 * dev-perl/Test-Harness: Runs perl standard test scripts with 
statistics[366] 
 * dev-perl/Test-Simple: Basic utilities for writing tests[367] 
 * dev-perl/Text-Aspell: Perl interface to the GNU Aspell Library[368] 
 * dev-perl/Text-Iconv: A Perl interface to the iconv() codeset conversion 
function[369] 
 * dev-perl/Text-Kakasi: This module provides libkakasi interface for 
Perl.[370] 
 * dev-perl/Time-HiRes: Perl Time::HiRes. High resolution alarm, sleep, 
gettimeofday, interval timers[371]  
 * dev-perl/XML-DOM: A Perl module for an DOM Level 1 compliant 
interface[372] 
 * dev-perl/XML-Grove: A Perl module providing a simple API to parsed XML 
instances[373] 
 * dev-perl/XML-Handler-YAWriter: A Perl module providing a simple API to 
parsed XML instances[374] 
 * dev-perl/XML-Twig: This module provides a way to process XML documents. 
It is build on top of XML::Parser[375] 
 * dev-perl/XML-XQL: A Perl module that allows you to perform XQL queries 
on XML trees[376] 
 * dev-perl/Xmms-Perl: A Perl extension interface to XMMS[377] 
 * dev-perl/glade-perl: Perl bindings for Glade[378] 
 * dev-perl/glib-perl: Glib - Perl wrappers for the GLib utility and 
Object libraries[379] 
 * dev-perl/jcode_pl: Japanese Kanji code converter for Perl[380] 
 * dev-perl/libnet: A URI Perl Module[381] 
 * dev-perl/perlsieve:  Access Sieve services[382]  
 * dev-php/mod_php: Apache module for PHP 
 * dev-php/php-accelerator: The ionCube PHP Accelerator[383] 
 * dev-python/PyQt: set of Python bindings for the QT 3.x Toolkit[384] 
 * dev-python/csv: CSV Module for Python[385] 
 * dev-python/egenix-mx-base: egenix utils for Python.[386] 
 * dev-python/email-py21: Helps to create, parse, generate, and modify 
email messages.[387] 
 * dev-python/epydoc: tool for generating API documentation for Python 
modules, based on their docstrings[388] 
 * dev-python/gadfly: relational database system implemented in 
Python[389] 
 * dev-python/ldaptor: set of LDAP utilities for use from the command 
line[390] 
 * dev-python/log4py: A python logging module similar to log4j[391] 
 * dev-python/mysql-python: MySQL Module for python[392]  
 * dev-python/mysql-python-py21: MySQL Module for python[393]  
 * dev-python/pyOpenSSL: Python interface to the OpenSSL library[394] 
 * dev-python/pyframer: Python interface for framerd[395] 
 * dev-python/pygtk: GTK+ bindings for Python[396] 
 * dev-python/pylibpcap: Python interface to libpcap[397] 
 * dev-python/pyorbit: ORBit2 bindings for Python[398] 
 * dev-python/pyrex: a language for writing Python extension modules[399] 
 * dev-python/pythoncard: Cross-platform GUI construction kit for 
python[400] 
 * dev-python/pythong: Nice and powerful spanish development enviroment 
for Python[401] 
 * dev-python/pyx: Python package for the generation of encapsulated 
PostScript figures[402] 
 * dev-python/qscintilla: QScintilla is a port to Qt of Neil Hodgson's 
Scintilla C++ editor class.[403] 
 * dev-python/rlcompleter2: Python command line completion.[404] 
 * dev-python/sip: SIP is a tool for generating bindings for C++ classes 
so that they can be used by Python.[405] 
 * dev-python/stripogram: A library for converting HTML to Plain 
Text.[406] 
 * dev-python/stripogram-py21: A library for converting HTML to Plain 
Text.[407] 
 * dev-python/twisted: collection of servers and clients, which can be 
used either by developers of new applications or directly. Documentation 
included.[408]  
 * dev-ruby/fxruby: Ruby language binding to the FOX GUI toolkit[409] 
 * dev-ruby/mysql-ruby: A Ruby extention library to use MySQL[410] 
 * dev-ruby/rmagick: An interface between Ruby and the ImageMagick(TM) 
image processing library[411] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-bsearch: A binary search library for Ruby[412] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-gdkimlib: Ruby GdkImlib bindings[413] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-gdkpixbuf: Ruby GdkPixbuf bindings[414] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-gnome: Ruby Gnome bindings[415] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-gtk: Ruby Gtk+ bindings[416] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-gtk2: Ruby gtk+-2 bindings[417] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-libart: Ruby libart bindings[418] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-libglade: Ruby libglade bindings[419] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-panel-applet: Ruby Gnome Panel bindings[420] 
 * dev-ruby/ruby-romkan: A Romaji <-> Kana conversion library for 
Ruby[421] 
 * dev-tcltk/Tk_Theme: Theming library for TCL/TK.[422] 
 * dev-tcltk/mysqltcl: TCL MySQL Interface[423] 
 * dev-tcltk/tclgpgme: Tcl/Tk libraries to gpgme.[424] 
 * dev-tcltk/tcllib: Tcl Standard Library.[425] 
 * dev-tcltk/tclxml: Pure Tcl implementation of an XML parser.[426] 
 * dev-tcltk/tclxml-expat: Tcl wrapper libraries for expat XML 
parser.[427] 
 * dev-tcltk/tkTheme: Tcl/Tk Theming library.[428] 
 * dev-tcltk/tkXwin: Tcl/Tk library to detect idle periods of an X 
session.[429] 
 * dev-tcltk/tls: TLS OpenSSL extension to Tcl.[430] 
 * dev-tex/chktex: Checks latex source for common mistakes[431] 
 * dev-tex/cpp2latex:  A program to convert C++ code to LaTeX source[432] 
 * dev-tex/cweb_latex: LaTeX package for using LaTeX with CWEB 
 * dev-util/cvsd: CVS pserver daemon[433] 
 * dev-util/cvsup: a faster alternative to cvs[434] 
 * dev-util/debootstrap: Debian bootstrap scripts[435] 
 * dev-util/diasce: The C/C++ Code editor for Gnome[436] 
 * dev-util/gnustep-back: GNUstep GUI backend[437] 
 * dev-util/gpsim: A simulator for the Microchip PIC microcontrollers[438] 
 
 * dev-util/gtk-doc: GTK+ Documentation Generator[439] 
 * dev-util/kprof: A KDE3 visual tool helping developers to analyze the 
profiling results generated by code profilers.[440] 
 * dev-util/patchutils: A collection of tools that operate on patch 
files[441] 
 * dev-util/pbuilder: personal package builder for Debian packages[442] 
 * dev-util/shc: A (shell-) script compiler/scrambler[443] 
 * dev-util/strace: A useful diagnostic, instructional, and debugging 
tool[444] 
 * dev-util/valgrind: An open-source memory debugger for 
x86-GNU/Linux[445] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo-activation: Gnome2 replacement for OAF[446] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-applets: gnome-applets[447] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-common: Some Common files for Gnome2 applications[448] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-panel: The Panel for Gnome2[449] 
 * gnome-base/libbonoboui: User Interface part of Lib bonobo[450] 
 * gnome-base/libglade: GLADE is a interface builder[451] 
 * gnome-base/libgnome: Essential Gnome Libraries[452] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeprint: Printer handling for Gnome[453] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeui: User interface part of libgnome[454] 
 * gnome-base/oaf: Object Activation Framework for GNOME[455] 
 * gnome-extra/acme: GNOME tool to make use of the multimedia buttons 
present on most laptops and internet keyboards.[456] 
 * gnome-extra/at-spi: This is the Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[457] 
 * gnome-extra/gconf-editor: An editor to the GNOME 2 config system[458] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-pim: gnome-pim[459] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-swallow: A Applet for Gnome2 that 'Swallows' normal 
apps. Usefull for docks that are made for other DE's or WM's[460] 
 * gnome-extra/libgtkhtml: Lightweight HTML Rendering/Printing/Editing 
Engine[461] 
 * gnome-extra/nautilus-media: Media plugins for Nautilus (audio view and 
info tab)[462] 
 * gnome-extra/quick-lounge-applet: Application launcher applet for 
GNOME[463] 
 * gnome-extra/yelp: Help browser for Gnome2[464] 
 * kde-base/kde-env: Sets up some env.d files for kde[465] 
 * kde-base/kdeadmin: KDE administration tools (user manager, etc.) 
 * kde-base/kdebase: KDE base packages: the desktop, panel, window 
manager, konqueror... 
 * kde-base/kdegames: KDE games (solitaire :-) 
 * kde-base/kdelibs: KDE libraries needed by all kde programs[466]  
 * kde-base/kdemultimedia: KDE multimedia apps: noatun, kscd, 
artsbuilder... 
 * kde-base/kdepim: KDE PIM (Personal Information Management) apps: 
korganizer... 
 * media-fonts/arphicfonts: Arphic Fonts[467] 
 * media-fonts/baekmuk-fonts: Korean Baekmuk Font[468] 
 * media-fonts/jisx0213-fonts: Japanese JIS0213 fonts[469] 
 * media-fonts/mikachan-font: Mikachan Japanese TrueType fonts[470] 
 * media-fonts/monafont: Japanese bitmap fonts suitable for browsing 
2ch[471] 
 * media-fonts/mplus-fonts: mplus Japanese BDF FONTS[472] 
 * media-fonts/shinonome: Japanese bitmap fonts for X[473] 
 * media-gfx/fbi: fbi a framebuffer image viewer[474] 
 * media-gfx/figurine: A vector based graphics editor similar to xfig, but 
simpler[475] 
 * media-gfx/flphoto: Basic image management and display program based on 
the FLTK toolkit[476] 
 * media-gfx/gimp-print: Gimp Print Drivers[477] 
 * media-gfx/gphoto2: free, redistributable digital camera software 
application[478] 
 * media-gfx/imagemagick: A collection of tools and libraries for many 
image formats[479] 
 * media-gfx/pfaedit: postscript font editor and converter[480] 
 * media-gfx/povray: The Persistance Of Vision Ray Tracer[481] 
 * media-gfx/videorbits: a collection of programs for creating high 
dynamic range images[482] 
 * media-gfx/xfig: A menu-driven tool to draw and manipulate objects 
interactively in an X window.[483] 
 * media-gfx/xv: An interactive image manipulation program for X which can 
deal with a wide variety of image formats[484] 
 * media-libs/compface: Utilities and library to convert to/from X-Face 
format[485] 
 * media-libs/divx4linux: Binary release of DivX Codec 5.0.1[486] 
 * media-libs/fontconfig: A library for configuring and customizing font 
access.[487] 
 * media-libs/freetype: A high-quality and portable font engine[488] 
 * media-libs/gle: GL extrusion library[489] 
 * media-libs/gst-plugins: Additional plugins for gstreamer - streaming 
media framework[490] 
 * media-libs/jbigkit: JBIG-KIT implements a highly effective data 
compression algorithm for bi-level high-resolution images such as fax 
pages or scanned documents[491] 
 * media-libs/libgphoto2: free, redistributable digital camera software 
application[492] 
 * media-libs/libmpeg3: An mpeg library for linux[493] 
 * media-libs/libquicktime: A library based on quicktime4linux with 
extensions[494] 
 * media-libs/libsdl: Simple Direct Media Layer[495] 
 * media-libs/libvorbis: the Ogg Vorbis sound file format library[496] 
 * media-libs/libwmf: library for converting WMF files[497] 
 * media-libs/nas: Network Audio System[498] 
 * media-libs/nurbs++: NURBS surfaces manipulation library[499] 
 * media-libs/pdflib: A library for generating PDF on the fly[500] 
 * media-libs/quicktime4linux: quicktime library for linux[501] 
 * media-libs/svgalib: A library for running svga graphics on the 
console[502] 
 * media-libs/t1lib: A Type 1 Rasterizer Library for UNIX/X11[503] 
 * media-libs/tse3: TSE3 Sequencer library[504] 
 * media-libs/vflib: Japanese Vector Font library[505] 
 * media-libs/xine-lib: Core libraries for Xine movie player[506] 
 * media-libs/xpm: xpm is provided by xfree[507] 
 * media-libs/yiff: high performance and stable sound server for UNIX 
games and apps[508] 
 * media-plugins/efxmms: Provides the possibility to send the audio 
through a queue of multiple effect plugins instead of one effect that XMMS 
originally handles[509] 
 * media-plugins/jefferson: On Screen Display plugin for Noatun[510] 
 * media-plugins/xmms-alarm: An alarm plugin for XMMS[511] 
 * media-plugins/xmms-compress: dynamic range compressor intended to keep 
the output of XMMS at a consistent volume without introducing any audible 
artifacts[512] 
 13. http://www.gentoo.org
 14. http://bonehunter.rulez.org/CCZE.html
 15. http://www.gentoo.org/
 16. http://sourceforge.net/projects/xsu/
 17. http://gtkdiskfree.tuxfamily.org/
 18. http://packages.debian.org/unstable/admin/logrotate.html
 19. http://www.gentoo.org/
 20. http://sourceforge.net/projects/pwgen/
 21. http://melkor.dnp.fmph.uniba.sk/~garabik/pydf
 22. http://pdg.uow.edu.au/sus/
 23. ftp://ftp.redhat.com/pub/redhat/linux/rawhide/SRPMS/SRPMS
 24. http://www.tripwire.org/
 25. http://www.gentoo.org
 26. http://www.webmin.com/index6.html
 27. http://www.mrunix.net/webalizer/
 28. http://bsdsfv.sourceforge.net/
 29. http://packages.qa.debian.org/dpkg
 30. http://flexbackup.sourceforge.net/
 31. http://www.rpm.org/
 32. http://www.slackware.com/config/packages.php
 33. ftp://ftp.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/UnZip.html
 34. http://www.coker.com.au/bonnie++/
 35. http://weather.ou.edu/~apw/projects/stress
 36. http://cdrdao.sourceforge.net/
 37. 
http://www.fokus.gmd.de/research/cc/glone/employees/joerg.schilling/private
/cdrecord.html
 38. http://k3b.sourceforge.net/
 39. http://www.xcdroast.org/
 40. http://www.ualberta.ca/~rbpark/gpg-ringmgr.html
 41. http://www.palfrader.org/keylookup/
 42. http://www.pdc.kth.se/kth-krb/
 43. http://mcrypt.hellug.gr/
 44. http://web.mit.edu/kerberos/www/
 45. http://www.gnupg.org/aegypten/
 46. ftp://ftp.vslib.cz/pub/unix/ispell/
 47. http://ispell-fi.sourceforge.net/
 48. http://members.xoom.virgilio.it/trasforma/ispell/
 49. http://ieva.mif.vu.lt/~alga/lt/ispell/
 50. 
http://fmg-www.cs.ucla.edu/geoff/ispell-dictionaries.html#Russian-dicts
 51. http://selflinux.sourceforge.net/
 52. ftp://ftp.cs.pdx.edu/pub/elvis/
 53. http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs
 54. http://lumumba.luc.ac.be/jori/klat/klat.html
 55. http://www.bostic.com/vi/
 56. ftp://ftp.mindlink.net/pub/teco/cantrell-teco/
 57. http://www.clark.net/pub/dickey/vile/vile.html
 58. http://www.xemacs.org
 59. http://cvs.m17n.org/elisp/APEL/
 60. http://emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki.pl?EmacsIRCClient
 61. http://cvs.m17n.org/elisp/FLIM/
 62. http://www.unixuser.org/~ueno/liece/
 63. http://www.mew.org/
 64. http://cvs.m17n.org/elisp/SEMI/index.html.ja.iso-2022-jp
 65. http://atari800.sourceforge.net/
 66. http://gwenole.beauchesne.online.fr/basilisk2/
 67. http://deltaanime.ath.cx/~blight/n64/
 68. http://deltaanime.ath.cx/~blight/n64/
 69. http://deltaanime.ath.cx/~blight/n64/
 70. http://mupen64.emulation64.com/
 71. http://dosbox.sourceforge.net/
 72. http://www.dosbox.sf.net
 73. http://www.dosemu.org/
 74. http://www.epsxe.com/
 75. http://www.uni-mainz.de/~bauec002/FRMain.html
 76. http://gens.consolemul.com/
 77. http://m.peponas.free.fr/gngeo/
 78. http://hatari.sourceforge.net/
 79. http://www.smspower.org/meka/
 80. http://nestra.linuxgames.com/
 81. http://www.winehq.com/
 82. http://www.mameworld.net/mamecat/
 83. http://tuxnes.sourceforge.net/
 84. http://www.vmware.com/products/desktop/ws_features.html
 85. http://www.winehq.com/
 86. http://www.transgaming.com/
 87. http://www.transgaming.com/
 88. http://x.mame.net/
 89. http://x.mame.net/
 90. http://artax.karlin.mff.cuni.cz/~brain/0verkill/
 91. http://forcedattack.sourceforge.net/
 92. http://icculus.org/~chunky/ut/aaut/
 93. http://www.labyrinth.net.au/~trandor/abuse/
 94. http://www.delorie.com/store/ace/
 95. http://www.adom.de/
 96. http://www.americasarmy.com/
 97. http://home.iprimus.com.au/crbean/
 98. http://armagetron.sourceforge.net/
 99. http://www.ip9.org/munro/invaders/index.html
 100. http://atanks.sourceforge.net/
 101. http://lgames.sourceforge.net
 102. http://www.billardgl.de/
 103. http://www.wolfire.com/blackshades.html 
http://www.icculus.org/blackshades/
 104. http://www.linux-games.com/bumprace/
 105. http://cannonsmash.sourceforge.net/
 106. http://packages.debian.org/codebreaker/
 107. http://www.nongnu.org/construo/
 108. http://aluminumangel.org/attack/
 109. http://crossfire.real-time.com/
 110. http://icculus.org/d2x/
 111. http://www.users.yun.co.jp/~tokita/daemonshogi/
 112. http://www.lokigames.com/products/descent3/
 113. http://legacy.newdoom.com/
 114. http://eboard.sourceforge.net/
 115. http://www.idsoftware.com/
 116. http://www.lokigames.com/products/fakk2/
 117. http://falconseye.sourceforge.net/
 118. http://www.flightgear.org/
 119. ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/games/amusements/fortune/
 120. http://oppresses.us/~avenj/index.html
 121. http://freecnc-sf.holarse.net/
 122. http://freecraft.sourceforge.net/
 123. http://freedroid.sourceforge.net/
 124. http://www.freelords.org/
 125. http://dw.nl.eu.org/mudix.html
 126. http://gnocatan.sourceforge.net/
 127. http://gracer.sourceforge.net/
 128. http://gtkatlantic.sourceforge.net/
 129. http://gtkboard.sf.net/
 130. http://www.adminmod.org/
 131. http://www.metamod.org/
 132. http://www.natural-selection.org/
 133. http://www.valve.com/
 134. http://www.activision.com/games/heavygearii/
 135. http://www.hlstats.org/
 136. http://ivan.sourceforge.net/
 137. http://www.jumpbump.mine.nu/
 138. http://kiki.sourceforge.net/
 139. http://mindless.sourceforge.net/
 140. http://unixcode.org/monopd/
 141. http://www.mathematik.uni-kl.de/~wwwstoch/voss/comp/moon-buggy.html
 142. http://www.nethack.org/
 143. http://www.netris.org/
 144. http://aoeu.snth.net/neverball/
 145. http://njam.sourceforge.net/
 146. http://noegnud.sourceforge.net/
 147. http://noegnud.sourceforge.net/
 148. http://www.cs.wisc.edu/graphics/Gallery/NPRQuake/ 
http://www.tempestgames.com/ryan/
 149. http://nwn.bioware.com/downloads/linuxclient.html
 150. http://snowstorm.sf.net/
 151. http://openparsec.sourceforge.net/
 152. http://pcgen.sourceforge.net
 153. http://poopmup.sourceforge.net/
 154. http://linux.tlk.fr/
 155. http://www.idsoftware.com/games/quake/quake/
 156. http://www.idsoftware.com/
 157. http://www.quakeforge.org/
 158. http://projectz.org/?id=70
 159. http://www.racer.nl/
 160. http://raptorv2.sourceforge.net/
 161. http://www.jfedor.org/red-blue-quake2/
 162. http://www.artsoft.org/rocksndiamonds/
 163. http://www.icculus.org/rott/
 164. http://games.activision.com/games/wolfenstein/
 165. http://www.scorched3d.co.uk/
 166. http://scummvm.sourceforge.net/
 167. http://wolfpack.twu.net/SearchAndRescue/
 168. http://searchtool.sourceforge.net/
 169. http://aoeu.snth.net/seb/
 170. http://sjeng.sourceforge.net/
 171. http://soccar.sourceforge.net/
 172. http://www.pygame.org/shredwheat/solarwolf/
 173. http://www.lokigames.com/products/sof/
 174. http://kxl.hn.org/
 175. http://perso.enst.fr/~vinot/spacehulk/
 176. http://www.webhome.de/stoned/
 177. http://www.strikeforcecenter.com/
 178. http://tenebrae.sourceforge.net/
 179. http://tetrinetx.sourceforge.net/
 180. http://t-o-m-e.net/
 181. http://tuxkart.sourceforge.net
 182. http://sourceforge.net/projects/tuxmathscrabble/
 183. http://umodpack.sourceforge.net/
 184. http://www.unreal.com/
 185. http://www.unrealtournament.com/
 186. http://www.unrealtournament.com/
 187. http://www.unrealtournament.com/
 188. http://infiltration.sentrystudios.net/
 189. http://www.unrealtournament2003.com/
 190. http://www.ut2003.com/
 191. http://xarchon.seul.org/
 192. http://rumsey.org/xgal.html
 193. http://ytin.sourceforge.net/
 194. 
http://www.collaboration-world.com/cgi-bin/collaboration-world/project/rele
ase.cgi?pid=5
 195. http://www.gnustep.org
 196. http://www.nongnu.org/terminal/
 197. http://canna.sourceforge.jp/
 198. http://sourceforge.jp/projects/${PN}
 199. http://www.io.com/~kazushi/less/
 200. http://fr.tldp.org/
 201. http://alexm.here.ru/manpages-ru/
 202. http://www3.big.or.jp/~sian/linux/products/
 203. http://hp.vector.co.jp/authors/VA000501/
 204. http://www.turbolinux.com.cn/~suzhe/scim/
 205. http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/dic.html
 206. http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/dic.html
 207. http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/dic.html
 208. http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/
 209. http://developer.berlios.de/projects/xsim/
 210. http://www.littleigloo.org/
 211. http://www6.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/~tsjensen/boxes/
 212. http://colordiff.sourceforge.net/
 213. http://fdutils.linux.lu/
 214. http://www.figlet.org/
 215. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcal/gcal.html
 216. http://geekcode.sourceforge.net/
 217. http://gfontview.sourceforge.net/
 218. http://snaught.com/glabels/
 219. http://gpsdrive.kraftvoll.at
 220. http://www.freesoftware.fsf.org/gtktalog
 221. http://www.gsyc.inf.uc3m.es/~assman/jail/
 222. http://www.deater.net/weave/vmwprod/linux_logo/
 223. http://www.ibiblio.org/mc/
 224. http://www.core-coutainville.org/MToolsFM/
 225. http://agtoys.sourceforge.net
 226. http://www.rc0.org.uk/tdl/
 227. http://www.geocities.com/wmalms/
 228. http://xnc.dubna.su/
 229. http://gaby.theridion.com/
 230. http://www.lyx.org/
 231. http://mrproject.codefactory.se/
 232. http://segfaultskde.berlios.de/index.php
 233. http://www.openoffice.org/
 234. http://www.openoffice.org
 235. http://www.bioperl.org/
 236. http://www.biopython.org
 237. http://www.netlib.org/blas/
 238. http://calcoo.sourceforge.net/
 239. http://ruby.chemie.uni-freiburg.de/~martin/chemtool/
 240. http://euler.sourceforge.net/
 241. http://www.uku.fi/~thassine/ghemical/
 242. http://hmmer.wustl.edu/
 243. http://apps.kde.com/na/2/counter/vid/5632/kcurl
 244. http://kmatplot.sourceforge.net/
 245. http://www.netlib.org/lapack/
 246. http://maxima.sourceforge.net/
 247. http://aros.ca.sandia.gov/~cljanss/mpqc/
 248. http://www.qsl.net/kd2bd/predict.html
 249. http://pymol.sourceforge.net/
 250. http://www.bmsc.washington.edu/raster3d/raster3d.html
 251. http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/amulet/projects/balsa/
 252. http://tclspice.sf.net/
 253. http://www.prism.gatech.edu/~gte067k/${PN}
 254. http://rssh.sourceforge.net/
 255. http://wh0rd.org/
 256. http://www-inf.enst.fr/~demaille/a2ps/
 257. http://aspell.net/
 258. http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/users/c2ps
 259. http://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/dasher/
 260. http://www.gyve.org/dgs/
 261. http://www.fsf.org/software/diction/diction.html
 262. http://www-user.tu-chemnitz.de/~fri/ding/
 263. http://www.cups.org/ghostscript.php
 264. http://www.gnu.org/software/ghostview/
 265. http://gtkspell.sourceforge.net/
 266. http://wwwthep.physik.uni-mainz.de/~plass/gv/
 267. http://fmg-www.cs.ucla.edu/geoff/ispell.html
 268. http://www.flyn.org/
 269. http://www.eecs.harvard.edu/~nr/noweb/
 270. http://openjade.sourceforge.net
 271. http://openjade.sourceforge.net/
 272. http://www.gnu.org/software/recode/
 273. http://www.dwheeler.com/sloccount/
 274. http://tug.org/teTeX/
 275. http://mama.indstate.edu/users/ice/tree/
 276. http://www.fpx.de/fp/Software/UUDeview/
 277. http://gtkmm.sourceforge.net/
 278. http://libxmlplusplus.sourceforge.net/
 279. http://cr.yp.to/cdb.html
 280. http://www.mysql.com/
 281. http://www.mysql.org/downloads/api-mysql++.html
 282. http://phpmyadmin.sourceforge.net/
 283. http://postgis.refractions.net/
 284. http://www.postgresql.org/
 285. http://www.globecom.se/tora/
 286. http://www.unixodbc.org/
 287. http://cel.sourceforge.net/
 288. http://opende.sourceforge.net/
 289. http://www.haskell.org/haddock
 290. http://ant.apache.org
 291. http://jakarta.apache.org/bcel/
 292. http://www.blackdown.org
 293. http://jakarta.apache.org/commons/dbcp.html
 294. http://dom4j.sourceforge.net/
 295. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.3/docs.html
 296. http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/index.html
 297. http://jakarta.apache.org/oro/index.html
 298. http://wwws.sun.com/software/java2/download.html
 299. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.1/download.html
 300. http://xml.apache.org/xerces2-j/index.html
 301. http://cafeconleche.org/XOM/index.html
 302. http://www.arrakis.es/~ninsesabe/blassic/index.html
 303. http://www.elegosoft.com/cm3/
 304. http://www.erlang.org/
 305. http://www.haskell.org/ghc/
 306. http://www.haskell.org
 307. http://www.cs.uu.nl/~afie/helium
 308. http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/fp/nhc98/
 309. http://www.ocaml.org/
 310. http://www.perl.org/
 311. http://www.python.org
 312. http://www.ruby-lang.org/
 313. http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/sather/ 
http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/~sather/
 314. http://www.exept.de/exept_99/english/welcomeFrame_smalltalk.html
 315. http://www.stratego-language.org/
 316. http://tiny-cobol.sourceforge.net/
 317. http://dev.scriptics.com/software/tcltk/
 318. http://www.directfb.org/
 319. http://www.cwi.nl/projects/MetaEnv/aterm/
 320. http://math-atlas.sourceforge.net/
 321. http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Hans_Boehm/gc/
 322. http://asg.web.cmu.edu/cyrus/imapd/
 323. http://asg.web.cmu.edu/sasl/
 324. http://www.gtk.org/
 325. http://www.gnu.org/software/gmp/gmp.html
 326. http://www.gnome.org/
 327. http://www.stud.uni-hamburg.de/~lennart/projects/libdaemon
 328. ftp://ftp.netlib.org/f2c/index.html
 329. http://www.gnupg.org/
 330. http://mcrypt.hellug.gr/
 331. http://libsigc.sourceforge.net/
 332. http://libtomcrypt.org/
 333. http://math.libtomcrypt.org/
 334. http://libusb.sourceforge.net/
 335. http://www.xmlsoft.org/
 336. http://www.xmlsoft.org/
 337. http://log4cpp.sourcforge.net/
 338. http://www.danga.com/memcached/
 339. http://www.danga.com/memcached/
 340. http://www.mozilla.org/projects/nspr/
 341. http://www.mozilla.org/projects/nss/
 342. http://www.openssl.org/
 343. http://reiserfs.linux.kiev.ua/
 344. http://www.openh323.org/
 345. http://sucs.sourceforge.net/
 346. http://www.cs.buffalo.edu/~crahen/projects/zthread/
 347. http://www.plt-scheme.org/software/drscheme/
 348. http://sbcl.sourceforge.net/
 349. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Acrhive/${P}.readme
 350. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/BSD/${P}.readme
 351. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/DB_File/${P}.readme
 352. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Digest/${P}.readme
 353. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-authors/id/K/KW/KWILLIAMS/${P}.readme
 354. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/File/${MY_P}.readme
 355. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Finance/${MY_P}.readme
 356. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Getopt/${P}.readme
 357. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/HTML/${P}.readme
 358. http://www.cpan.org/authors/id/KWILLIAMS/${P}.readme
 359. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Image/${MY_P}.readme
 360. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/Locale/${MY_P}.readme
 361. http://www.fuhr.org/~mfuhr/perldns/
 362. http://cpan.valueclick.com/modules/by-module/PDL/${P}.readme
 363. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/Parse/${MY_P}.readme
 364. http://search.cpan.org/author/ABERGMAN/${P}/
 365. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Storable/${P}.readme
 366. http://search.cpan.org/search?dist=Test-Harness
 367. http://search.cpan.org/search?dist=Test-Harness
 368. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-authors/id/H/HA/HANK/${P}.readme
 369. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/Text/${P}.readme
 370. http://search.cpan.org/dist/Text-Kakasi/
 371. http://search.cpan.org/author/JHI/${P}/
 372. 
http://cpan.valueclick.com/modules/by-category/11_String_Lang_Text_Proc/XML
/${P}.readme
 373. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/XML/${MY_P}.readme
 374. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/XML/${MY_P}.readme
 375. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/XML/${MY_P}.readme
 376. http://cpan.org/modules/by-module/XML/${MY_P}.readme
 377. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Xmms/${P}.readme
 378. http://www.perl.org/
 379. http://gtk2-perl.sf.net/
 380. http://srekcah.org/jcode/
 381. 
http://cpan.valueclick.com/modules/by-category/05_Networking_Devices_IPC/Ne
t/${P}.readme
 382. http://sourceforge.net/projects/websieve/
 383. http://www.php-accelerator.co.uk/
 384. http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/pyqt/
 385. http://www.object-craft.com.au/projects/csv/
 386. http://www.egenix.com/
 387. http://mimelib.sourceforge.net/
 388. http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/
 389. http://gadfly.sourceforge.net/
 390. http://twistedmatrix.com/users/tv/ldaptor/
 391. http://www.its4you.at/english/log4py.html
 392. http://sourceforge.net/projects/mysql-python/
 393. http://sourceforge.net/projects/mysql-python/
 394. http://pyopenssl.sourceforge.net/
 395. http://twistedmatrix.com/users/washort/pyframer/
 396. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/
 397. http://sourceforge.net/projects/${PN}/
 398. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/
 399. http://www.cosc.canterbury.ac.nz/~greg/python/Pyrex
 400. http://pythoncard.sourceforge.net/index.html
 401. http://www3.uji.es/~dllorens/PythonG/principal.html
 402. http://pyx.sourceforge.net/
 403. http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/qscintilla/
 404. http://codespeak.net/rlcompleter2/
 405. http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/sip/
 406. http://www.zope.org/Members/chrisw/StripOGram/
 407. http://www.zope.org/Members/chrisw/StripOGram/
 408. http://www.twistedmatrix.com/
 409. http://www.fxruby.org/
 410. http://www.tmtm.org/en/mysql/ruby/
 411. http://rmagick.rubyforge.org/
 412. http://namazu.org/~satoru/ruby-bsearch/
 413. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 414. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 415. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 416. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 417. http://ruby-gnome2.sourceforge.jp/
 418. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 419. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 420. http://ruby-gnome.sourceforge.net/
 421. http://namazu.org/~satoru/ruby-romkan/
 422. http://www.xmission.com/~georgeps/Tk_Theme/
 423. http://www.xdobry.de/mysqltcl/
 424. http://beepcore-tcl.sourceforge.net/
 425. http://www.tcl.tk/software/tcllib/
 426. http://tclxml.sourceforge.net/
 427. http://tclxml.sourceforge.net/
 428. http://www.xmission.com/~georgeps/Tk_Theme/other/
 429. http://beepcore-tcl.sourceforge.net/
 430. http://tls.sourceforge.net/
 431. http://www.nongnu.org/chktex/
 432. http://www.arnoldarts.de/cpp2latex.html
 433. http://tiefighter.et.tudelft.nl/~arthur/cvsd/
 434. http://www.cvsup.org/
 435. http://packages.qa.debian.org/d/debootstrap.html
 436. http://diasce.es.gnome.org/
 437. http://www.gnustep.org
 438. http://www.dattalo.com/gnupic/gpsim.html
 439. http://www.gtk.org/
 440. http://kprof.sourceforge.net/
 441. http://cyberelk.net/tim/patchutils/
 442. http://packages.qa.debian.org/p/pbuilder.html
 443. http://www.datsi.fi.upm.es/~frosal
 444. http://www.wi.leidenuniv.nl/~wichert/strace/
 445. http://developer.kde.org/~sewardj
 446. http://www.gnome.org/
 447. http://www.gnome.org/
 448. http://www.gnome.org/
 449. http://www.gnome.org/
 450. http://www.gnome.org/
 451. http://www.gnome.org/
 452. http://www.gnome.org/
 453. http://www.gnome.org/
 454. http://www.gnome.org/
 455. http://www.gnome.org/
 456. http://www.hadess.net/misc-code.php3
 457. http://www.gnome.org/
 458. http://www.gnome.org/
 459. http://www.gnome.org/gnome-office/gnome-pim.shtml
 460. http://www-unix.oit.umass.edu/~tetron/technology/swallow
 461. http://www.gnome.org/
 462. http://www.gstreamer.net
 463. http://quick-lounge.sourceforge.net/
 464. http://www.gnome.org/
 465. http://www.gentoo.org/
 466. http//www.kde.org/
 467. http://www.arphic.com.tw/
 468. http://www.mizi.co.kr/ko/prod/etc/mos-pro2.htm
 469. http://www.mars.sphere.ne.jp/imamura/jisx0213.html
 470. http://mikachan-font.com/
 471. http://monafont.sourceforge.net
 472. http://mplus-fonts.sourceforge.jp/
 473. http://openlab.jp/efont/shinonome/
 474. http://bytesex.org/fbi.html
 475. http://figurine.sourceforge.net/
 476. http://www.easysw.com/~mike/flphoto/
 477. http://gimp-print.sourceforge.net
 478. http://www.gphoto.org/
 479. http://www.imagemagick.org/
 480. http://pfaedit.sourceforge.net/
 481. http://www.povray.org/
 482. http://comparametric.sourceforge.net/
 483. http://www.xfig.org
 484. http://www.trilon.com/xv/index.html
 485. http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/apps/graphics/convert/
 486. http://www.divx.com/
 487. http://fontconfig.org/
 488. http://www.freetype.org/
 489. http://www.linas.org/gle
 490. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 491. http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/jbigkit/
 492. http://www.gphoto.org/
 493. http://heroinewarrior.com/libmpeg3.php3
 494. http://libquicktime.sourceforge.net/
 495. http://www.libsdl.org/
 496. http://www.xiph.org/ogg/vorbis/index.html
 497. http://www.wvware.com/libwmf.html
 498. http://radscan.com/nas.html
 499. http://libnurbs.sourceforge.net/
 500. http://www.pdflib.com/
 501. http://heroinewarrior.com/quicktime.php3
 502. http://www.svgalib.org/
 503. ftp://metalab.unc.edu/pub/Linux/libs/graphics
 504. http://TSE3.sourceforge.net/
 505. http://typehack.aial.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/VFlib/
 506. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 507. http://www.gentoo.org/
 508. http://wolfpack.twu.net/YIFF/
 509. http://sourceforge.net/projects/efxmms
 510. http://www.freekde.org/neil/jefferson/
 511. http://www.snika.uklinux.net/index.php?show=xmms-alarm
 512. http://trikuare.cx/~magenta/projects/xmms-compress.html

Total categories: 95 (3 categories added in the last two weeks)
 
Total packages: 5984 (278 packages added in the last two weeks)
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[513]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Between 01 August 2003 and 07 August 2003, activity on 
the site has resulted in: 

 513. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 422 new bugs during this period 
 * 235 bugs closed or resolved during this period 
 * 7 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3539 currently open bugs: 87 are labeled 'blocker', 153 are labeled 
'critical', and 280 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs during this period 
are: 
 
 * Gentoo Games[514], with 25 closed bugs[515]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[516], with 20 closed bugs[517]  
 * Martin Holzer[518], with 12 closed bugs[519]  
 * Ryan Phillips[520], with 9 closed bugs[521]  
 * Sparc Porters[522], with 8 closed bugs[523]  
 514. games@gentoo.org
 515. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08-07&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=games@gentoo.org
 516. azarah@gentoo.org
 517. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08-07&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org
 518. mholzer@gentoo.org
 519. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08-07&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=mholzer@gentoo.org
 520. rphillips@gentoo.org
 521. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08-07&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=rphillips@gentoo.org
 522. sparc@gentoo.org
 523. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08-07&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=sparc@gentoo.org

    
New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs during 
this period are: 
 
 * Portage Team[524], with 17 new bugs[525]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[526], with 10 new bugs[527]  
 * Gentoo Sound Team[528], with 8 new bugs[529]  
 * X86 Kernel Team[530], with 7 new bugs[531]  
 * Jason Wever[532], with 6 new bugs[533]  
 524. dev-portage@gentoo.org
 525. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08
-07&assigned_to=dev-portage@gentoo.org
 526. azarah@gentoo.org
 527. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08
-07&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org
 528. sound@gentoo.org
 529. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08
-07&assigned_to=sound@gentoo.org
 530. x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 531. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08
-07&assigned_to=x86-kernel@gentoo.org
 532. weeve@gentoo.org
 533. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-01&chfieldto=2003-08
-07&assigned_to=weeve@gentoo.org

==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Using script
 
This week's tip shows you how to use script as a way to store or share 
everything printed during a terminal session. This can be a great way to 
remotely demonstrate command-line Linux to a less experienced user. 
Alternatively, it's a good way to keep a record of everything you do (or 
did) for a specific session. 
 
First we'll look at keeping a record of everything. The can be done by 
just issuing the command script. The output of your session will be 
written to a file named typescript. If you want to specify a file other 
than the default, use script file where file is the name of the file 
storing the session. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
| Creating a script session                                               |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% script                                                                 |
|Script started, file is typescript                                       |
|% uptime                                                                 |
| 13:27:53 up 89 days,  3:50,  1 user,  load average: 0.27, 0.35, 0.29    |
|% uname -srvmpio                                                         |
|Linux 2.4.20-gentoo-r4 #1 SMP Fri May 9 08:54:35 EDT 2003 i686 Intel(R) \|
|Xeon(TM)                                                                 |
| CPU 2.00GHz GenuineIntel GNU/Linux                                      |
|% exit                                                                   |
|Script done, file is typescript                                          |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
The session file can be reviewed later with a pager such as more, less, or 
cat. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
| Viewing a script session                                                |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% more typescript                                                        |
|Script started on Wed Aug  6 13:27:47 2003                               |
|% uptime                                                                 |
| 13:27:53 up 89 days,  3:50,  1 user,  load average: 0.27, 0.35, 0.29    |
|% uname -srvmpio                                                         |
|Linux 2.4.20-gentoo-r4 #1 SMP Fri May 9 08:54:35 EDT 2003 i686 Intel(R) \|
|Xeon(TM)                                                                 |
| CPU 2.00GHz GenuineIntel GNU/Linux                                      |
|% exit                                                                   |
|                                                                         |
|Script done on Wed Aug  6 13:28:01 2003                                  |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Now we'll look at sharing a terminal session. The easiest way to do this 
is combining script with mkfifo (which creates a named pipe). Note that 
you need to use the -f option (script -f) to flush output after each 
write. This way, the terminal can be written to by User A and viewed in 
(near) real time by User B. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.3:                                                       |
| User A's terminal                                                       |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% mkfifo demo; script -f demo                                            |
|Script started, file is demo                                             |
|% echo 'Hello World'                                                     |
|Hello World                                                              |
|% exit                                                                   |
|Script done, file is demo                                                |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Note:  User A's terminal will wait for input until User B issues the cat 
command (or accesses the named pipe). 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.4:                                                       |
| User B's terminal                                                       |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|% cat demo                                                               |
|Script started on Wed Aug  6 13:48:51 2003                               |
|% echo 'Hello World'                                                     |
|Hello World                                                              |
|% exit                                                                   |
|                                                                         |
|Script done on Wed Aug  6 13:49:04 2003                                  |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
There are many other ways script could be used - hopefully this will give 
you some ideas to get you started. 
   
========================================
10. Featured Quote/Signature of the Week
========================================
  
This week's featured quote comes from an IRC conversation in #gentoo at 
irc.freenode.net. User tcv said: 
 
"sqorpiun`: every man must walk the lonely halls of xconfig alone someday. 
it is a trial of passage :p"
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * Alexander Gabert (pappy) -- hardened 
 * Alvaro Figuerora (fede2) -- sparc 
 * Steve Arnold (nerdboy) -- various 
 * Mike Gardiner (Obz) -- gnome 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[534].

 534. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[535] and help make GWN better.

 535. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[536] 
 * English[537] 
 * German[538] 
 * French[539] 
 * Japanese[540] 
 * Italian[541] 
 * Polish[542] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[543] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[544] 
 * Russian[545] 
 * Spanish[546] 
 * Turkish[547] 
 536. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 537. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 538. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 539. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 540. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 541. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 542. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 543. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 544. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 545. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 546. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 547. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml

  
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brian Downey <bdowney@briandowney.net> - Contributor
Cal Evans <cal@calevans.com> - Contributor
Chris Gavin <gubbs@fudo.org> - Contributor
Luke Giuliani <cold_flame@email.com> - Contributor
Shawn Jonnet <shawn.jonnet@verizon.net> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gentoo@blueimpulsestudios.com> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Galkin <gals_home@list.ru> - Russian Translator
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Alex Spirin <asp13@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Denis Zaletov <dzaletov@rambler.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation

