---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of July 7th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Good bye and thank you to all. 
 * Gentoo coming to Windows with Cygwin 
 * Milestone reached in herds project 
 * Infrastructure changes 
 * Controversy about inappropriate content in ebuilds 
 * GWN seeking additional contributors 
    
Good bye and thank you to all.
------------------------------
  
With this issue, the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter marks its eighth month of 
publication. It also marks the retirement of myself as editor of the 
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter. Though I am retiring from editing the GWN, I 
will continue to remain with the Gentoo Linux project, assisting with 
infrastructure, public relations and general management responsibilities, 
as well as the occasional article contribution to the GWN. Yuji Carlos 
Kosugi will be taking over the helm of the GWN, continuing where I left 
off and improving things going forward. 
 
I wanted to take this opportunity to thank our readership for their 
support, feedback and contributions over the past eight months. In that 
short time, the GWN has grown from nothing more than an idea to one of the 
most popular features of Gentoo Linux. The gentoo-gwn mailing list has 
over 5500 subscribers and the web pages are among the busiest on our site. 
None of this would have been possible without your support. So, while I am 
sad to be leaving such a wonderful position, I am happy that it is being 
handed over to someone who can devote more time and effort to it than I 
was able to do. With that, please join me in welcoming Yuji aboard as the 
editor of the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter. 
 
-- Kurt Lieber 
    
Gentoo coming to Windows with Cygwin
------------------------------------
  
We're very pleased to announce the creation of the gentoo-cygwin project, 
which will enable users to take advantage of Portage and other features of 
the Gentoo platform in Windows using Cygwin[1]. In pursuing this projects 
like the Metapkg[2] and this, our goal is to extend users' choices, giving 
existing users the choice of additional platforms and making Gentoo an 
option for users of different operating systems. 

 1. http://cygwin.com/
 2. http://metapkg.org/pr-20030620.html
 
We are currently getting our infrastructure ready (mailing lists, project 
page, etc.) for this project. News about further developments will be 
posted on the Gentoo news page as well as in future editions of the GWN. 
    
Milestone reached in herds project
----------------------------------
  
The herds project[3], which aims for the development of an infrastructure 
to help manage the growing number of ebuilds, has reached a milestone with 
the finalization of a DTD[4] for the metadata.xml file which contains 
extra information about an ebuild. Users: we need long descriptions for 
packages, and good suggestions are welcome on Bugzilla[5]. 

 3. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/metastructure/herds/
 4. http://www.gentoo.org/dtd/metadata.dtd
 5. http://bugs.gentoo.org/
    
Infrastructure changes
----------------------
  
During this past week forums.gentoo.org[6], bugs.gentoo.org[7], 
cvs.gentoo.org[8], and dev.gentoo.org[9] all experienced some downtime as 
they were migrated to new machines or upgraded. While some of these 
changes were necessitated by having to return loaned hardware, various 
improvements have been made: the forums and bugs servers are on much 
better hardware that should scale far better than before, and 
dev.gentoo.org and cvs.gentoo.org, which offer developer e-mail, public 
html directories, and CVS, are no longer on the same machine. 

 6. http://forums.gentoo.org/
 7. http://bugs.gentoo.org/
 8. http://cvs.gentoo.org
 9. http://dev.gentoo.org
    
Controversy about inappropriate content in ebuilds
--------------------------------------------------
  
A bug[10] posted by a user who found inappropriate content in the 
x11-themes/windowmaker-themes ebuild sparked a long debate among 
developers about what should be done, and the proposed solutions were 
many. Those arguing for choice wanted the ebuild to be left as it was, or 
conceded that it would be a bad idea to install inappropriate content by 
default and suggested implementing a local USE flag. Others argued that 
Gentoo should distribute software, not content, and remove themes from 
Portage altogether. In the end, the offending themes were removed from the 
ebuild; some voiced concerns that it would be bad to modify an upstream 
package, but this was actually just a collection of themes thrown together 
and put in Portage. 

 10. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23635
    
GWN seeking additional contributors
-----------------------------------
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is looking for someone to take over the 
Featured Developer of the Week section, as well as some additional 
contributors to add depth to the team so we don't have sections going on 
hiatus as often. Candidates should have a solid understanding of written 
English; drop us a line at gwn-feedback@gentoo.org if you're interested. 
Also, there's no need to send us a resume - we actually mean it literally 
when we say "drop us a line". 
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: phpbb 
 * GLSA: gnocatan 
 * GLSA: mikmod 
 * GLSA: noweb 
 * GLSA: tcptraceroute 
    
GLSA: phpbb
-----------
  
The phpbb forum contains a SQL-injection vulnerability that could permit 
remote attackers to obtain password hashes. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote security vulnerability. 
 * Packages Affected: net-www/phpbb prior to phpbb-2.0.5 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge phpbb, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[11] 
 11. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105683271616944&w=2
    
GLSA: gnocatan
--------------
  
The game gnocatan contains multiple buffer overflows that could be used to 
execute arbitrary code on the server system. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote arbitrary code execution. 
 * Packages Affected: app-games/gnocatan prior to gnocatan-0.7.1-r3 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge gnocatan, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[12] 
 12. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105683533318812&w=2
    
GLSA: mikmod
------------
  
The mikmod MOD-player is subject to a buffer overflow that could permit a 
remote attacker to execute arbitrary code. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote arbitrary code execution. 
 * Packages Affected: media-sound/mikmod prior to mikmod-3.1.6a 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge mikmod, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[13] 
 13. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105722154901292&w=2
    
GLSA: noweb
-----------
  
The noweb literate programming tool contains multiple vulnerabilities, 
causing insecure temporary files and the possibility for local users to 
overwrite arbitrary files. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - Local file insecurity. 
 * Packages Affected: app-text/noweb prior to noweb-2.9-r3 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge noweb, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[14] 
 14. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105683283717040&w=2
    
GLSA: tcptraceroute
-------------------
  
The network analyzer package tcptraceroute does not properly drop 
privileges after obtaining a file descriptor. This could permit a local 
user to gain access to that descriptor through another tcptraceroute 
vulnerability. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - Local file descriptor vulnerabiity. 
 * Packages Affected: net-analyzer/tcptraceroute prior to 
tcptraceroute-1.4-r1 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge tcptraceroute, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[15] 
 15. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105683257916828&w=2
    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
News from the XX chromosome users
 
Figure 3.1: loothi and her beloved laptop
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030707_lucy.jpg
 
Ok, this week's featured user is really special. Not because he uses 
Gentoo to take over the world. But, fellow geek beware, because "he" is 
not even a "he". Really, it's true, there are female Gentoo users out 
there! ;) And this week we are introducing one of them: Lucy aka loothi.
 
Some personal info
 
loothi, 27, originally comes from London and is currently working as a web 
developer in Sydney, Australia. But as she likes to wander the world with 
her laptop, she is already on her way to the Netherlands to spend a year 
working over there. Lucy likes Perl kung fu, "Indiana Jones" style 
adventures in foreign countries and playing the banjo. Her favourite apps 
include windowmaker, a gecko-derived browser (she keeps changing her mind 
about which one to use), vim, xine, xmms, gnome-terminal (because she 
likes the clickable links), mutt and gnupg.
 
Why Gentoo Linux
 
Nobody can explain why she chose Gentoo Linux better than Lucy herself: 
"The laptop is my lifeline, in that it has to reliably fulfill all my 
desktop computing, communications, entertainment and development needs. I 
need to be able to update libraries and applications quickly to keep 
current with security, patches and releases which is why Gentoo appealed." 
This reasoning should sound quite familiar to most of us!
 
Past, present and future
 
Lucy was a Debian fan for a long time, but the idea of a finely tuned 
operating system featuring a *BSD style ports system really appealed to 
her and so she finally decided to install Gentoo on her notebook.
 
So far loothi didn't regret this decision, although she found the 
installation process pretty painful, especially because she had to do it 
without a network connection. Therefore she doesn't recommend this way of 
installing Gentoo Linux to anybody who isn't deeply masochistic. But apart 
from that she feels that she has made the right decision and is learning 
more with everyday she's using Gentoo. Lucy is really pleased with Portage 
because of its painless way of software installation and the automatic 
management of dependencies.
 
For the future she'd like to do another Gentoo installation on a spare box 
to see how Gentoo competes as a server. If it turns out well Lucy is going 
to use it as a production server and can start to deploy it at her 
workplaces.
 
Wishlist
 
What Lucy really would like to see is a nice user handbook ala FreeBSD's 
because she thinks that the documentation is a bit fragmented and she's 
not a huge forums fan. Anything else? Yeah, sure, a black Gentoo T-shirt 
would be nice! White gets dirty too quickly... ;)
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Dylan Carlson, aka absinthe
 
Figure 4.1: Dylan Carlson, aka absinthe
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030707_absinthe.jpg
 
Dylan Carlson[16] is the lead man for the Java team, and as such is the 
caretaker for all things Java, and spends his time thinking of new ways to 
break things, closing bugs for what he has already broken, and makes fun 
of fellow developer Todd Berman[17](/joke). Recruited by Seemant 
Kulleen[18] after having been noticed for his contributions on Bugzilla 
and interest in porting BSD stuff to Gentoo, he plans to return to the BSD 
effort sometime soon. Before Gentoo, most of Dylan's work was on FreeBSD; 
he still divides his time between FreeBSD and Gentootoday, and 
occasionally contributes small fixes to apps he uses. He wrote a METAR[19] 
decoder (for NOAA weather data), and a defect-tracking/helpdesk app called 
Coalesce. In the fall, he plans to release a java-based Citadel BBS; he is 
also considering writing a Java-based GUI client for Bugzilla. 

 16. absinthe@gentoo.org
 17. tberman@gentoo.org
 18. seemant@gentoo.org
 19. http://weather.noaa.gov/weather/metar.shtml
 
His favorite applications include jEdit, distcc/ccache, and bogofilter; he 
runs them under Fluxbox along with Idesk, KDE 3.x and OpenOffice. He uses 
Kmail on the console and Mutt from a shell. Recently, he built his first 
Gentoo Linux firewall using Shorewall, and plans to put Method's Hardened 
project to the test. 
 
Dylan lives in Roxbury, Connecticut and has been working in IT and IT 
management for the last 13 years. Presently he's doing data center 
construction and systems administration; his eventual goal is to do 
software development full-time, preferably without being a manager as 
well. He likes to travel when he has the money, and go hiking locally when 
he doesn't. When the mood strikes him, he writes horrible fiction on a 
1924 Underwood typewriter. He also mows his lawn. 
 
"And a thousand slimy things lived on; and so did I." - Samuel Taylor 
Coleridge 
   
=============
5. Web Forums
=============
  
Crashed Server Back Up
 
After a successful migration on Thursday to new and better hardware, 
Friday saw the utter demolition of both the Forum and the Bugzilla server 
harddisk, causing a disruption of both services for a number of hours. 
Everything is back in working order now, of course, but for anyone looking 
to explain how this can happen, why not have a look at the Forum 
statistics every now and then? At 22,000 users, peaking at almost 250 
concurrent sessions, with 400,000 posts in 1.5 GB worth of database 
entries, the strain on the Forum hardware becomes quite understandable: 
 
 * Gentoo Forums Board Statistics[20] 
 20. http://forums.gentoo.org/statistics.php
 
GUI Installer: Almost Done...
 
Traditionally among the more frequent requests (and even bitter 
complaints) is Gentoo's lack of a semi-automated, fancy GUI-based 
installation routine. While most Gentooists certainly don't need one, 
chances are that having one can't do much harm. Nathaniel McCallum[21] 
wrote a script that's been evolving quite nicely since the first version, 
and his website and the Forum thread of eight pages at the time of this 
writing are certainly proof that there's an audience for that sort of 
thing:

 21. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=20112
 
 * GLIS: Gentoo Linux Install Script (0.6-final Testers needed)[22] 
 * GLIS homepage on Sourceforge[23] 
 22. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=55293
 23. http://glis.sourceforge.net

Eclass Errors
 
Shortly after publication of our last GWN issue, a seriously disturbing 
phenomenon caused an uproar in the Forums. A glitch in the portage tree 
that propagated slowly across the mirrors had caused hundreds of "eclass 
'foo' in 'foo' does not exist!" errors to float past the horrified users 
on their next rsync. This problem, traced to a glitch in the master rsync 
server possibly caused by the CVS migration, continued to occur to a 
lesser degree for the rest of the week because the fix took some time to 
propagate to all the mirrors, but it has been resolved thanks to the 
expediency of robbat2, peitolm, avenj, and klieber, and hopefully will not 
happen again. Not to be taken lightly, but interesting to watch an error 
ripple the global surface, jumping continents one by one:
 
 * Portage broken(?): hundreds of eclass errors!![24] 
 24. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=64433

=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Gentoo Brazil
 
It's been online for a few months already, but we've forgot to tell you... 
Better late than never: Marcos Roberto S. Vieira and Otavio Rodolfo Piske, 
two CIS students from Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina started Gentoo 
Brazil[25] three months ago, with the aim to provide all those services 
we've come to expect from the growing number of regional Gentoo websites, 
documentation, tips and tricks, user services, everything in their own 
language which some people say still strongly resembles genuine 
Portuguese... The Gentoo Linux Brazil users group was created in March 
2003, and its focus on promoting Gentoo to Brazilian Linux users is no 
easy task in a country that does have a popular home-grown Linux 
distribution, Conectiva. Marcos and Otavio both started out as Conectiva 
users way back in 1997/98, too, but they've shifted to Gentoo over the 
course of the last year, now also adding to the strong group of people 
busy translating the Gentoo documentation and news into Brazilian 
Portuguese (as opposed to Portuguese Portuguese). Their success, by the 
way, has led the former colonial masters back in Europe to start thinking 
about setting up their own site. If you're up to giving them a hand, join 
the Portuguese Portuguese Portuguese Gentooists at this Forum thread[26].

 25. http://www.gentoobr.org
 26. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=65275
 
Gentoo-driven Computer Store and Internet Cafe in Australia
 
Proof that Down Under can well be on top of things at times: Michael 
Vale[27] informs us that on 30 June he opened the doors to his own 
computer store in Bendigo/Victoria, a seven-days-a-week affair by the name 
of ZING! Computing. Amongst sales and repairs for computers, they offer 
Internet access for browsing and online games to whoever walks in. And of 
course they run their own local rsync server: "The wonders of working with 
Gentoo have amazed me. The ability and freedom it has offered is second to 
none. Because it is very straight-forward it has allowed me to achieve 
many things with ease which would normally take a lot longer with any 
other distribution", says Michael, who is in the process of setting up a 
handful of 386 thin clients for his Internet Cafe, in addition to the four 
AMD Athlon 2.0 with Soltek Nforce2 mother boards and a few PCs with 
additional Geforce4 TI graphic cards. The shop will be difficult to miss 
if you happen to be in Bendigo, Victoria: It's the one that says "Powered 
by Gentoo Linux" at 374 Hargreaves Street...

 27. zing@www.nex.net.au
 
Germany: Come and See Gentoo at the LinuxTag 2003
 
Europe's largest annual Linux and Open Source event, the German LinuxTag 
2003[28], is going to be held this week, from 10 to 13 July at the 
Conference Centre in Karlsruhe. Sufficiently close to the French border to 
attract lots of visitors from outside Germany, too, this year's event 
throws a spotlight on the coveted "Linux in public administrations" 
discussion thread, with an entire conference day sponsored by the German 
Federal Ministry of the Interior, known for its active role in deploying 
open source software in government offices. Everyone who's anyone is going 
to be there, including - of course - a number of activists manning the 
Gentoo booth in the LinuxTag's exhibition hall. Pre-registration[29] 
entitles you to a free ticket for the exhibition and most speeches and 
seminars (excluding the Government Linux conference, that'll be 175 EUR, 
please). Meeting other Gentoo users will be easy since they will 
undoubtedly have a tendency to gravitate around the Gentoo booth, but if 
you want to announce your coming, this Forum thread[30] is the right place 
to coordinate Gentoo user meetings at the LinuxTag.

 28. http://www.linuxtag.org/2003/en/index.html
 29. http://www.linuxtag.org/2003/en/expo/prereg.html
 30. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=60153
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following notable packages were updated or added to portage in the 
last two weeks
--------------
  
 * dev-db/mysql: A fast, multi-threaded, multi-user SQL database 
server.[31] 
 * gnome-base/*: Meta package for the GNOME desktop, merge this package to 
install the GNOME Desktop.[32] 
 * sys-kernel/development-sources: Full sources for the Development Branch 
of the Linux kernel[33] 
 * sys-devel/gcc: The GNU Compiler Collection. Includes C/C++ and java 
compilers[34] 
 * sys-libs/glibc: GNU libc6 (also called glibc2) C library[35] 
 * sys-kernel/pfeifer-sources: Full sources for the experimental Linux 
kernel.[36] 
 * sys-kernel/gs-sources: This kernel stays up to date with current kernel 
-pres, with recent acpi, evms, win3lin, futexes, aic79xx, superfreeswan, 
preempt/ll, and various hw fixes.[37] 
 * sys-kernel/hppa-sources: Full sources for the Linux kernel with patch 
for hppa[38] 
 31. http://www.mysql.com/
 32. http://www.gnome.org/
 33. http://www.kernel.org/ http://www.gentoo.org/
 34. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html
 35. http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/libc.html
 36. 
http://cvs.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/*checkout*/gentoo-x86/sys-kernel/
pfeifer-sources/ChangeLog?rev=1.11
 37. 
http://cvs.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/*checkout*/gentoo-x86/sys-kernel/
gs-sources/ChangeLog?rev=1.18
 38. http://www.kernel.org/ http://www.gentoo.org/ http://parisc-linux.org
    
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
two weeks
---------
  
 * app-admin/addpatches: patch management script 
 * app-admin/cpu: CPU is an LDAP user management tool written in C and 
loosely based on FreeBSD's pw(8).[39] 
 * app-admin/diradm: diradm is for managing posix users/groups in an LDAP 
directory[40] 
 * app-admin/fam-oss: FAM, the File Alteration Monitor[41] 
 * app-admin/grubconfig: Simple Tool to configure Grub-Bootloader[42] 
 * app-admin/pwgen: Password Generator[43] 
 * app-admin/setools: SELinux graphical policy tools[44] 
 * app-admin/sudo: Allows certain users/groups to run commands as root[45] 
 * app-admin/superadduser: Interactive adduser script[46] 
 * app-admin/syslog-ng: syslog replacement with advanced filtering 
features[47] 
 * app-arch/file-roller: archive manager for GNOME[48] 
 * app-arch/flexbackup: Flexible backup script using perl[49] 
 * app-doc/doxygen: Doxygen is a documentation system for C++, C, Java, 
IDL (Corba, Microsoft, and KDE-DCOP flavors) and to some extent PHP and 
C#.[50] 
 * app-editors/gedit: A text editor for the Gnome2 desktop[51] 
 * app-emacs/mew: great MIME mail reader for Emacs/XEmacs[52] 
 * app-emacs/wl: wanderlust is a mail/news reader supporting IMAP4rev1 for 
emacsen[53] 
 * app-games/abuse_sdl: port of Abuse by Crack Dot Com[54] 
 * app-games/armagetron: armagetron: 3d tron lightcycles, just like the 
movie[55] 
 * app-games/daemonshogi: A GTK+ based, simple shogi (Japanese chess) 
program[56] 
 * app-games/freedoom: Freedoom - Open Source Doom resources.[57] 
 * app-games/gcompris: full featured educational application for children 
from 3 to 10[58] 
 * app-games/gtetrinet: Tetrinet Clone for GNOME 2[59] 
 * app-games/kobodeluxe: An SDL port of xkobo, a addictive space 
shoot-em-up[60] 
 * app-misc/figlet: program for making large letters out of ordinary 
text[61] 
 * app-misc/gramps: Genealogical Research and Analysis Management 
Programming System[62] 
 * app-misc/jpilot: Desktop Organizer Software for the Palm Pilot[63] 
 * app-misc/largorecipes: LargoRecipes is an application for managing 
recipes.[64] 
 * app-misc/linup: Linux Uptime Client[65] 
 * app-sci/biopython: Biopython - python module for Computational 
Moelcular Biology[66] 
 * app-sci/chessbrain: distibuted computing project client[67] 
 * app-sci/ghemical: Ghemical supports both quantum-mechanics 
(semi-empirical and ab initio) models and molecular mechanics models 
(there is an experimental Tripos 5.2-like force field for organic 
molecules). Also a tool for reduced protein models is included. Geometry 
optimization, molecular dynamics and a large set of visualization tools 
are currently available.[68] 
 * app-sci/iverilog: A Verilog simulation and synthesis tool[69] 
 * app-sci/ksimus: KSimus is a KDE tool for simulation, automatization and 
visualization of technical processes.[70] 
 * app-sci/octave: GNU Octave is a high-level language (MatLab compatible) 
intended for numerical computations[71] 
 * app-sci/setiathome: Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) @ 
home[72] 
 * app-sci/setimgr: A SETI@home management program[73] 
 * app-sci/tbass: Balsa is both a framework for synthesising asynchronous 
hardware systems and the language for describing such systems[74] 
 * app-shells/bash: The standard GNU Bourne again shell[75] 
 * app-text/docbook-sgml: A helper package for sgml docbook 
 * app-text/ggv: The GNOME PostScript document viewer[76] 
 * app-text/ghostscript: ESP Ghostscript -- an enhanced version of GNU 
Ghostscript with better printer support[77] 
 * app-text/gnome-spell: Gnome spellchecking component.[78] 
 * app-text/gpdf: PDF viewer for Gnome 2[79] 
 * app-text/gtkspell: spell library for GTK2[80] 
 * dev-db/metakit: Embedded database library[81] 
 * dev-haskell/hmake: a make tool for Haskell programs[82] 
 * dev-libs/atk: Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[83] 
 * dev-perl/DBD-mysql: The Perl DBD:mysql Module[84] 
 * dev-perl/DBI: The Perl DBI Module[85] 
 * dev-python/PyXML: A collection of libraries to process XML with 
Python.[86] dev-python/cjkcodecs: ERROR in ChangeLog entry 
 * gnome-extra/acme: GNOME tool to make use of the multimedia buttons 
present on most laptops and internet keyboards.[87] 
 * gnome-extra/at-poke: the accessibility poking tool[88] 
 * gnome-extra/at-spi: This is the Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[89] 
 * gnome-extra/bug-buddy: Bug report tool for GNOME[90] 
 * gnome-extra/gal: The Gnome Application Libraries[91] 
 * gnome-extra/gconf-editor: An editor to the GNOME 2 config system[92] 
 * media-fonts/arphicfonts: Arphic Fonts[93] 
 * media-fonts/artwiz-fonts: Artwiz Fonts[94] 
 * media-fonts/baekmuk-fonts: Korean Baekmuk Font 
 * media-fonts/corefonts: Microsoft's TrueType core fonts[95] 
 * media-fonts/kochi-substitute: Kochi Japanese TrueType fonts with 
Wadalab Fonts[96] 
 * media-libs/aalib: A ASCII-Graphics Library[97] 
 * media-plugins/rmxmms: RealAudio plugin for xmms[98] 
 * media-video/ati-drivers: Ati precompiled drivers for r300, r250 and 
r200 chipsets[99] 
 * media-video/ffmpeg: Complete solution to record, convert and stream 
audio and video. Includes libavcodec.[100] 
 * media-video/mplayer: Media Player for Linux[101] 
 * net-analyzer/cutter: TCP/IP Connection cutting on Linux Firewalls and 
Routers[102] 
 * net-dialup/cistronradius: An authentication and accounting server for 
terminal servers that speak the RADIUS protocol.[103] 
 * net-firewall/firestarter: GUI for iptables firewall setup and 
monitor.[104] 
 * net-firewall/iptables: Kernel 2.4 firewall, NAT and packet mangling 
tools[105] 
 * net-fs/netatalk: kernel level implementation of the AppleTalk Protocol 
Suite[106] 
 * net-im/bitlbee: Bitlbee is an irc to IM gateway that support mutliple 
IM protocols[107] 
 * net-irc/dircproxy: an IRC proxy server[108] 
 * net-irc/unrealircd: aimed to be an advanced (not easy) IRCd[109] 
 * net-libs/linc: A library to ease the writing of networked 
applications[110] 
 * net-mail/bogofilter: Bayesian spam filter designed with fast 
algorithms, and tuned for speed.[111] 
 * net-mail/courier: An MTA designed specifically for maildirs[112] 
net-mail/elm: ERROR in ChangeLog entry 
 * net-p2p/gift-cvs: A OpenFT, Gnutella and FastTrack p2p network 
client[113] net-p2p/gift-fasttrack-cvs: ERROR in ChangeLog entry 
 * net-print/cups: The Common Unix Printing System[114] 
 * net-print/foomatic: Generates printer configurations automagically[115] 
 * net-print/gnome-cups-manager: A little girl in the woods looking for 
printers[116] 
 * sys-cluster/heartbeat: Heartbeat high availability cluster manager[117] 
 * sys-cluster/ipvsadm: ipvsadm is a utility to administer the IP virtual 
server services offered by the Linux kernel with IP virtual server 
support.[118] 
 * sys-cluster/keepalived: The main goal of the keepalived project is to 
add a strong & robust keepalive facility to the Linux Virtual Server 
project.[119] 
 * sys-devel/automake: Used to generate Makefile.in from Makefile.am[120] 
 * sys-devel/binutils: Tools necessary to build programs[121] 
 * sys-devel/distcc: a program to distribute compilation of C code across 
several machines on a network[122] 
 * sys-devel/flex: GNU lexical analyser generator[123] 
 * sys-libs/db: Berkeley DB[124] 
 * x11-base/xfree-drm: Xfree86 Kernel DRM modules[125] 
 * x11-libs/gtk+: Gimp ToolKit + [126] 
 * x11-libs/libwnck: A window navigation construction kit[127] 
 * x11-libs/pango: Text rendering and Layout library[128] 
 * x11-libs/startup-notification: Application startup notification and 
feedback library[129] 
 * x11-libs/vte: Xft powered terminal widget[130] 
 * x11-terms/gnome-terminal: The Gnome Terminal[131] 
 * x11-terms/mlterm: A multi-lingual terminal emulator[132] 
 * x11-themes/gdm-themes: Some nice themes for the GDM Greeter[133] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme: Gnome2 default icon theme[134] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-themes: A set of gnome2 themes, with sets for users 
with limited or low vision[135] 
 39. http://cpu.sourceforge.net/
 40. http://www.hits.at/diradm/
 41. http://oss.sgi.com/projects/fam/
 42. http://www.tux.org/pub/people/kent-robotti/looplinux/index.html
 43. http://sourceforge.net/projects/pwgen/
 44. http://www.tresys.com/selinux_policy_tools.html
 45. http://www.sudo.ws/
 46. http://www.gentoo.org/
 47. http://www.balabit.hu/en/products/syslog-ng/
 48. http://fileroller.sourceforge.net/
 49. http://flexbackup.sourceforge.net/
 50. http://www.doxygen.org
 51. http://www.gnome.org/
 52. http://www.mew.org/
 53. http://www.gohome.org/wl/index.html
 54. http://www.labyrinth.net.au/~trandor/abuse/
 55. http://armagetron.sourceforge.net/
 56. http://www.users.yun.co.jp/~tokita/daemonshogi/
 57. http://freedoom.sourceforge.net/
 58. http://ofset.sourceforge.net/gcompris/
 59. http://gtetrinet.sourceforge.net/
 60. http://www.olofson.net/kobodl/
 61. http://www.figlet.org/
 62. http://gramps.sourceforge.net/
 63. http://jpilot.org/
 64. http://largorecipes.sourceforge.net/
 65. ftp://ftp.smux.net/people/sena/linup/
 66. http://www.biopython.org
 67. http://www.chessbrain.net/
 68. http://www.uku.fi/~thassine/ghemical/
 69. http://www.icarus.com/eda/verilog/
 70. http://ksimus.berlios.de/
 71. http://www.octave.org/
 72. http://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.edu
 73. http://www.arkady.demon.co.uk/seti/
 74. http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/amulet/projects/balsa/
 75. http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/bash.html
 76. http://www.gnome.org/
 77. http://www.easysw.com/
 78. http://www.gnome.org/
 79. http://www.purl.org/NET/gpdf
 80. http://gtkspell.sourceforge.net/
 81. http://www.equi4.com/metakit/
 82. http://www.haskell.org/hmake/
 83. http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gap/
 84. http://cpan.pair.com/modules/by-module/DBD/
 85. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/DBI/${P}.readme
 86. http://pyxml.sourceforge.net/
 87. http://www.hadess.net/misc-code.php3
 88. http://www.gnome.org/
 89. http://www.gnome.org/
 90. http://www.gnome.org/
 91. http://www.gnome.org/
 92. http://www.gnome.org/
 93. http://www.arphic.com.tw/
 94. http://fluxbox.sourceforge.net/docs/artwiz-fonts.php
 95. http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/
 96. http://efont.sourceforge.jp/
 97. http://aa-project.sourceforge.net/aalib/
 98. http://www.xmms.org 
http://forms.real.com/rnforms/resources/server/realsystemsdk/index.html#dow
nload
 99. http://www.ati.com
 100. http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net/
 101. http://www.mplayerhq.hu/
 102. http://www.lowth.com/cutter
 103. http://www.radius.cistron.nl/
 104. http://firestarter.sf.net
 105. http://www.iptables.org/
 106. http://netatalk.sourceforge.net
 107. http://www.lintux.cx/bitlbee.html
 108. http://www.dircproxy.net/
 109. http://www.unrealircd.com/
 110. http://www.gnome.org/
 111. http://bogofilter.sourceforge.net/
 112. http://www.courier-mta.org/
 113. http://gift.sourceforge.net
 114. http://www.cups.org
 115. http://www.linuxprinting.org/foomatic
 116. http://foo.bar.com/
 117. http://www.linux-ha.org
 118. http://linuxvirtualserver.org
 119. http://keepalived.sourceforge.net
 120. http://www.gnu.org/software/automake/automake.html
 121. http://sources.redhat.com/binutils/
 122. http://distcc.samba.org/
 123. http://lex.sourceforge.net/
 124. http://www.sleepycat.com
 125. http://www.xfree.org
 126. http://www.gtk.org/
 127. http://www.gnome.org/
 128. http://www.pango.org/
 129. http://www.freedesktop.org/software/startup-notification/
 130. http://www.gnome.org/
 131. http://www.gnome.org/
 132. http://mlterm.sourceforge.net/
 133. http://art.gnome.org/theme_list.php?category=gdm_greeter
 134. http://www.gnome.org/
 135. http://www.gnome.org/softwaremap/projects/gnome-themes
 
Total categories: 86 (no category added in the last week)
 
Total packages: 4448 (30 packages added in the last week)
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
   
Due to technical difficulties with the bugs.gentoo.org server on Friday, 
bug statistics will be unavailable this week. Next week's GWN will include 
a two-week summary. 
    
==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Killing Processes 
 
This week we show you some interesting ways to kill stubborn processes. 
Never let it be said that you can't kill a process again! The first way is 
the old boring way that most people probably use. Use the command ps aux, 
look through the process list until you find the PID you want and issue 
the kill command. How tedious! 
 
Alternatively, try using the killall command which will automatically kill 
a program based on its name. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                         |
|  # killall mozilla-bin                                                  |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
But what if you only know part of the name? Well, you could combine ps 
with grep, kill and awk to produce something like this. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                         |
|  # ps aux | grep mozilla | awk '{print $2}' | xargs kill                |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
But, there's a far simpler way. Enter pkill and the closely related pgrep. 
These commands are part of the sys-apps/procps package and are designed to 
search for (or kill) running processes. So the previous command could be 
replaced with the following: 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.3:                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                         |
|  # pkill mozilla                                                        |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: To list the PIDs instead of killing them, use pgrep.  

Finally, what if you have a runaway process hogging /dev/dsp, or some 
other file/socket? You can use fuser, which displays the PIDs of processes 
using a specified file or filesystem. Or give it the -k option, like this, 
and you can easily kill those processes: 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.4:                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                         |
|  # fuser -k /dev/dsp                                                    |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   
===============================
10. Quote/Signature of the week
===============================
  
This week we have another quote about XML; it seems like making fun of it 
is almost as popular as XML itself! Gentoo developer Phillip Cockrell[136] 
said: "XML is like the community bicycle ... everybody needs to have a 
ride."

 136. gcc@gentoo.org
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
 
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * none this week 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[137].

 137. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[138] and help make GWN better.

 138. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[139] 
 * English[140] 
 * German[141] 
 * French[142] 
 * Japanese[143] 
 * Italian[144] 
 * Polish[145] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[146] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[147] 
 * Russian[148] 
 * Spanish[149] 
 * Turkish[150] 
 139. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 140. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 141. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 142. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 143. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 144. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 145. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 146. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 147. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 148. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 149. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 150. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml
  
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gentoo@blueimpulsestudios.com> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Peter Sharp <mail@psharp.uklinux.net> - Contributor
Kim Tingkaer <kim@thinkit.dk> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Micha\217\252\312~B Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <pablonhess@yahoo.com> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
