---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of July 14th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Gentoo Linux at LinuxTag 
 * ViewCVS back up 
    
Gentoo Linux at LinuxTag
------------------------
  
Gentoo Linux was at LinuxTag 2003[1], the largest Linux/Open Source fair 
in Europe, held at the Conference Center in Karlsruhe, Germany. The 
convention closed its doors yesterday after four days packed with 
speeches, workshops, a programming contest and numerous other events in 
the congress center and its fairly large exhibition hall, competing for 
media attention only with the beautiful weather (IT journalists were 
spotted hanging out in the adjacent zoological garden, drinking latte and 
chasing the peacocks). 

 1. http://www.linuxtag.org/2003/en/index.html
 
The German Gentoo devs, including Michael Imhof[2], Dan Armak[3], Hanno 
Boeck[4], Sascha Schwabbauer[5], Lars Weiler[6], and many others who had 
manned the Gentoo booth since Thursday, packed up their odd collection of 
hardware ranging from handheld devices over iBooks to powerful graphics 
workstations and went home, exhausted but happy about a very successful 
first display of Gentoo at the LinuxTag. 1000 LiveCDs (LinuxTag edition, 
sponsored by Millenux[7], an IBM Germany partner for Linux on s/390 
mainframes) were thrown at visitors for free, and were gone so fast that a 
rotational vigil had to be mounted over the rationed number of copies to 
be handed out per day. At peak time, 12 resident Gentooists were sharing 
the available booth space (at a density of almost a dev per square meter), 
and hundreds of Gentoo users, the occasional visiting dev and many IT 
professionals dropped by for a chat about new features, organisational 
questions or to exchange hearty handclasps among people who had only met 
via mailing lists and Forum threads before. One KDE developer who visited 
the booth told danarmak that he was going to switch to Gentoo just because 
because he liked his live CVS KDE ebuilds so much. 

 2. tantive@gentoo.org
 3. danarmak@gentoo.org
 4. hanno@gentoo.org
 5. cybersystem@gentoo.org
 6. pylon@gentoo.org
 7. http://www.millenux.com
 
The crowd gathering to watch demos of co-exhibitor XINE added to making 
things look slightly claustrophobic at times, but the general feeling was 
"the more, the merrier". Tantive's LinuxTag Summary[8] gives a thorough 
account of the kind of questions the Gentoo devs were most often 
confronted with. "When will Gentoo be available for the Opteron?" and "No 
problem doing mass emerges for several machines at a time, but how do I 
etc-update a large number of workstations afterwards?" were among the 
typically more business-oriented demands from LinuxTag visitors. 

 8. http://peregrine.gentoo.org/~tantive/lt/linuxtag_summary.txt
 
Figure 1.1: Standing in the middle, from left to right, Lars Weiler, 
Sascha Schwabbauer, Hanno Boeck
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030714_linuxtag1.jpg
 
Figure 1.2: From left to right, Xine devs Andreas Heinchen and Stefan 
Holst, Gentoo devs Michael Imhof and Lars Weiler
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030714_linuxtag2.jpg
    
ViewCVS back up
---------------
  
We're very pleased to announce that ViewCVS, the web-based CVS repository 
viewer which has been down since the migration of cvs.gentoo.org, is now 
available again at http://www.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/, with a 
significant improvement: the load is spread out over several servers, so 
users should notice an improved response time. 
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: unzip 
 * GLSA: gtksee 
 * GLSA: cistronradius 
 * GLSA: ypserv 
 * GLSA: New Security Bug Reports 
    
GLSA: unzip
-----------
  
By inserting invalid characters between ".." attackers can overwrite 
arbitrary files. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote file overwriting. 
 * Packages Affected: app-arch/unzip prior to unzip-5.50-r2 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge unzip, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[9] 
 9. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105793184721021&w=2
    
GLSA: gtksee
------------
  
A carefully crafted png picture can be used to exploit a buffer overflow 
in gtksee and execute arbitrary code on the target machine. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote execution of arbitrary code. 
 * Packages Affected: media-gfx/gtksee prior to gtksee-0.5.2 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge gtksee, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[10] 
 10. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105793537425849&w=2
    
GLSA: cistronradius
-------------------
  
The Cistron RADIUS daemon permits a remote DoS attack with the potential 
to execute arbitrary code. This is do to an improper handling of a large 
NAS-Port attribute which is interpreted by the daemon as a negative 
number. 
 
 * Severity: High - Remote execution of arbitrary code. 
 * Packages Affected: net-dialup/cistronradius prior to 
cistronradius-1.6.6-r1 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge cistronradius, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[11] 
 11. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105793300722507&w=2
    
GLSA: ypserv
------------
  
The ypserv NIS server could permit a remote DoS attack using a TCP client 
request that does not respond to the server. 
 
 * Severity: Moderate - Remote DoS. 
 * Packages Affected: net-dns/ypserv prior to ypserv-2.8 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge ypserv, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[12] 
 12. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105793445524213&w=2
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted in the past two weeks: 
 
 * net-www/netscape-flash[13] 
 * sys-apps/shadow[14] 
 * app-games/xblockout[15] 
 * net-www/webfs[16] 
 * media-gfx/mediamagick[17] 
 * app-games/xgalaga[18] 
 * app-emulation/vmware-workstation[19] 
 * dev-php/phpgroupware[20] 
 * dev-python/twisted [21] 
 * kernel race condition[22] 
 13. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24200
 14. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24081
 15. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23999
 16. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24000
 17. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24001
 18. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24002
 19. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24006
 20. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23962
 21. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23679
 22. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23788
    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
Remember, we need you to send us[23] your stories in order to have a story 
here. Whether interesting, funny, or just plain unbelievable, we'd love to 
feature your story about Gentoo and you here. 

 23. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Lisa Marie Seelye
 
Figure 4.1: Lisa Mary Seelye
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030714_lisa.jpg
 
This week we're featuring Lisa Marie Seelye[24], who just joined the 
Gentoo Linux Project a few days ago. She maintains distcc[25], and has 
already gotten distcc-2.7.1 into x86 stable and committed 2.8 for testing. 
She says the life of a maintainer is a simple life: up at the crack of 
dawn to squash any bugs and to make the life of everyone using Gentoo and 
distcc a little easier. Lisa came to the project when Seemant Kulleen[26] 
saw something in the ebuilds and bugs she submitted to Bugzilla, and says 
that these were selfish contributions - bugs submitted so that things 
would work for her - but that the awesome beauty is that people are also 
affected in a positive way and it makes her feel good. Lisa has released a 
couple of Win32 programs with the source available, but Gentoo is her 
first 'real' OSS project. A student during the day, Lisa writes PHP 
applications for paying customers to help pay the bills. 

 24. lisa@gentoo.org
 25. http://distcc.samba.org
 26. seemant@gentoo.org
 
A PHP lover, Lisa says her best work is a function from a PHP project she 
wrote, that accepts a relative path and then recursively adds every jpeg 
under it into a database and even makes a thumbnail of each image. 
Weighing in at a lean 57 lines with comments, Lisa says this taught her 
how to manipulate stacks in a way she hadn't done before, as well as how 
to use PHP/Apache functions. Her favorite apps are a mix of Windows and 
Linux ones: first, she's in love in Trillian[27], a Win32 native 
multi-protocol messaging client that she finds compact and easy to use. 
Second is Opera[28], which in her opinion is the best web browser and one 
she'd find hard to surf without. An x86 gal, Lisa uses three computers on 
a daily basis: her desktop, a 1.2GHz Athlon T-Bird with 640MB RAM, her 
testing box, a K6-2/400MHz with 128MB RAM and a buggy NIC, and her 
everything-server, a dual P3 (1GHz and 733MHz) running with a bunch of 
grsecurity restrictions. She's using 2.4.20-OpenMosix on the first two and 
2.4.20-gentoo-r5 on the server. On her desktop, she uses whatever happens 
to be the latest release of Evolution in ~x86, under a default Gnome 
installation. 

 27. http://www.trillian.cc/
 28. http://www.opera.com
 
"I have to be me cuz no one else is gonna do it for me." - a friend 
   
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Last 2.5.x Kernel Out and About
 
With the imminent arrival of the new stable series and the recent announce 
that 2.5.75 will be the last 2.5.x series kernel the Gentoo users are 
getting more and more anxious for this version to become stable. Two Forum 
threads are dealing with quirks and features of the latest development 
sources, and the different aspects of how to get the current kernel to a 
rock-solid 2.6 series: 
 
 * 2.5.75 Kernel Released[29] 
 * 2.5.75 out - 2.6-test to begin[30] 
 29. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=66558
 30. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=66528
 
Mozilla 1.4 Grabbing Attention
 
The new version of Mozilla has been added to the portage tree just last 
week, and Gentooists have been busy giving feedback about this new 
release, features, bugs, compile time errors and whatnot. Check the main 
threads in the Forums here:
 
 * Mozilla 1.4 is out[31] 
 * Mozilla 1.4 is awesome[32] 
 31. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=64389
 32. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=66398
 
Gentoo Common Menu
 
Other distributions already make installed desktop applications available 
in their window manager menus, and in the spirit of a growing desktop 
orientation of many Gentooists, spikkle[33] now asks about a Gentoo way to 
implement these common menus across different desktop environments. What 
is needed to make automatical application additions sufficiently smooth 
and flexible?

 33. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=21912
 
 * Gentoo Common Menu[34] 
 34. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=66754

    
gentoo-user
-----------
  
Heads up: Apache2 and MySQL4 moved to stable
 
Gentoo Linux developer Donny Davies[35] wrote a message[36] to the -user 
and -dev lists about Apache2 and MySQL4 being marked as stable. This means 
that, by default, emerging apache or mysql will result in those newer 
versions installed. If you want to stay with the older ones, the easiest 
way is to put some entries in /etc/portage/profiles/package.mask, as Ian 
Truelsen[37] pointed out[38]. 

 35. woodchip@gentoo.org
 36. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/39312/match=heads
 37. ian@ihtruelsen.dyndns.org
 38. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/10065/
 
Choosing the Window Manager for your Tastes 
 
Picking your window manager can sometimes be very difficult. Some are 
feature filled, but may be sometimes bloated. Others may lack some 
features, but are designed to be lightning fast. User Richard Kilgore 
posted to the -user list asking for feedback on a window manager that may 
suit his taste. He preferred it to not be ugly, but accepted keyboard 
input, as a mouse would not be available. In response, many users 
recommended xfce4, openbox, even FVWM with themes. Link here[39]. 

 39. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/39213 
 
Problem with NVidia
 
User Christian Herzyk was having problems with his system and the latest 
NVidia drivers, version 4340. Symptoms of his system included lockups, or 
very slow X starting times. Recommended solutions included turning ACPI 
off, forcing detection of monitors, etc. Link here[40]. 

 40. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/39301
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
*-doc vs USE="doc"
 
There seem to be a couple of methods for handling documentation[41] for 
packages. The very obvious one would be to simply include the 
documentation in the package itself. However that way eliminates options. 
So to give the user a choice one could split software and documentation in 
two, letting him install the docs separately. And of course there is the 
doc use flag for overall control. Alastair Tse brought it up wondering 
what would be the gentoo way of doing things.

 41. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-dev&m=105799944809915&w=2
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Gentoo.de Now Recruiting Devs and Translators
 
Generational handover at Gentoo.de: The oldest non-US Gentoo website, the 
German www.gentoo.de[42] needs a fresh blood injection to cover for some 
of the old hands who had to drop their frantic contribution schedule 
because of the workload in their real world commitments, on the job and in 
university. Beejay (Benjamin Judas)[43] is coordinating the call for 
contributors at this Forum thread[44]. Most desperately needed are 
translators for the Gentoo documentation and news, but also ebuild writers 
and developers with enough free time on their hands to help things running 
smoothly at the German Gentoo users group. 

 42. http://www.gentoo.de
 43. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=7570
 44. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=66117
 
Gentoo Games CDs Bundled with Brazilian Linux Magazine
 
Revista do Linux[45], a monthly Linux magazine published by the Brazilian 
distribution Conectiva[46], offers a CD with tons of Linux tools and 
applications in each issue. Documentations, games, new releases, complete 
distros, the latest kernel source, videos: every week the Revista do Linux 
readers are presented with an excellent collections of Free Software 
items, and the July issue now has the GentooGames[47] LiveCD "Return to 
Castle Wolfenstein - Enemy Territory" bundled to it. 

 45. www.revistadolinux.com.br
 46. www.conectiva.com.br
 47. http://www.gentoogames.com
 
Update: New Gentoo Portugal Coordination Thread in the Forums
 
As reported last week, the Portuguese Gentooists are setting up their own 
Gentoo Linux Users Group. António Meireles (aka Datashark[48]), a former 
Gentoo developer, is now requesting ideas for the setup of a fully fledged 
user group complete with a website and anything else that might look 
appropriate. Comments, ideas and suggestions to this forum thread[49], 
please. 

 48. 
 49. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=65984
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following notable packages were updated or added to portage in the 
last week
---------
  

 * app-office/openoffice: OpenOffice.org, a full office productivity 
suite.[50] 
 * sys-kernel/pfeifer-sources: Full sources for the experimental Gentoo 
Kernel.[51] 
 * sys-kernel/ac-sources: Full sources for Alan Cox's Linux kernel[52] 
 * sys-kernel/alpha-sources: Full sources for the Gentoo Linux Alpha 
kernel[53] 
 * sys-kernel/development-sources: Full sources for the Development Branch 
of the Linux kernel[54] 
 * sys-kernel/hppa-sources: Full sources for the Linux kernel with patch 
for hppa[55] 
 * x11-base/xfree: Xfree86: famous and free X server[56] 
 50. http://www.openoffice.org/
 51. 
http://www.gentoo.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs.cgi/*checkout*/gentoo-x86/sys-kernel/
pfeifer-sources/ChangeLog
 52. http://www.kernel.org/
 53. http://www.kernel.org/
 54. http://www.kernel.org/
 55. http://www.kernel.org/
 56. http://www.xfree.org
    
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
week
----
  
 * app-admin/amanda: The Advanced Maryland Automatic Network Disk 
Archiver[57] 
 * app-admin/cpu: CPU is an LDAP user management tool written in C and 
loosely based on FreeBSD's pw(8).[58] 
 * app-admin/gentoolkit: Collection of unofficial administration scripts 
for Gentoo[59] 
 * app-admin/gkrellm: Single process stack of various system monitors[60] 
 * app-admin/gnomesu: GNOME2 interface to su, previously xsu and xsu2[61] 
 * app-admin/mirrorselect: Tool to help select distfiles mirrors for 
Gentoo[62] 
 * app-admin/prelude-manager: Prelude-IDS Manager[63] 
 * app-admin/profiler: provides 3D visual representation of file system 
statistics[64] 
 * app-admin/usermin: Usermin, a web-based user administration 
interface[65] 
 * app-admin/webmin: Webmin, a web-based system administration 
interface[66] 
 * app-admin/xsu2: Interface for 'su - username -c command' in GNOME2.[67] 
 * app-arch/flexbackup: Flexible backup script using perl[68] 
 * app-cdr/cdrdao: Burn CDs in disk-at-once mode -- with optional GUI 
frontend[69] 
 * app-cdr/cdrtools: A set of tools for CDR drives, including 
cdrecord.[70] 
 * app-cdr/cdrx: Menu based front-end to mkisofs and cdrecord[71] 
 * app-cdr/k3b: K3b, KDE CD Writing Software[72] 
 * app-crypt/gnupg: The GNU Privacy Guard, a GPL pgp replacement[73] 
 * app-crypt/gpgme: GnuPG Made Easy (GPGME) is a library designed to make 
access to GnuPG easier for applications.[74] 
 * app-crypt/seahorse: gnome front end to gnupg[75] 
 * app-editors/gedit: A text editor for the Gnome2 desktop[76] 
 * app-emacs/wl: a mail/news reader supporting IMAP4rev1 for emacsen[77] 
 * app-emulation/atari800: Atari 800 emulator[78] 
 * app-games/0verkill: A bloody 2D action deathmatch-like game in 
ASCII-ART[79] 
 * app-games/adom: Ancient Domains Of Mystery rogue-like game[80] 
 * app-games/armagetron: armagetron: 3d tron lightcycles, just like the 
movie[81] 
 * app-games/avp-cvs: Linux port of Aliens vs Predator[82] 
 * app-games/bsd-games: collection of games from NetBSD[83] 
 * app-games/bsd-games-non-free: collection of games from NetBSD[84] 
 * app-games/castle-combat: A clone of the old arcade game Rampart.[85] 
 * app-games/cgoban2: A Java client for the Keisido Go Server, and a SGF 
editor[86] 
 * app-games/chromium: Chromium B.S.U. - an arcade game[87] 
 * app-games/dungeon: A linux port of the Dungeon game once distributed by 
DECUS[88] 
 * app-games/freedoom: Freedoom - Open Source Doom resources.[89] 
 * app-games/freedroidrpg: Freedroid - a Paradroid clone[90] 
 * app-games/freelords: Free Warlords clone[91] 
 * app-games/ggz-gtk-client: The gtk client for GGZ Gaming Zone[92] 
 * app-games/ggz-gtk-games: These are the gtk versions of the games made 
by GGZ Gaming Zone[93] 
 * app-games/ggz-txt-client: The textbased client for GGZ Gaming Zone[94] 
 * app-games/gl117: GL-117 is an action flight simulator[95] 
 * app-games/gnugo: A Go-playing program[96] 
 * app-games/gtetrinet: Tetrinet Clone for GNOME 2[97] 
 * app-games/halflife-adminmod: give people admin access (and a looooooot 
more)[98] 
 * app-games/halflife-clanmod: tool for Half-Life mods which helps ease 
admining a server[99] 
 * app-games/halflife-cstrike: Halflife Counterstrike mod[100] 
 * app-games/halflife-dpb: Halflife Digital Paintball mod[101] 
 * app-games/halflife-hlguard: server-side anti-cheat solution for 
Half-Life and it's many MODs[102] 
 * app-games/halflife-metamod: plugin manager for Half-Life server[103] 
 * app-games/halflife-ns: Halflife Natural Selection mod ... kill aliens 
or marines[104] 
 * app-games/halflife-server: Halflife Linux Server[105] 
 * app-games/halflife-steam: client for Valve Software's Steam content 
delivery program[106] 
 * app-games/hlstats: real-time player rankings/statistics for 
half-life[107] 
 * app-i18n/im-ja: A Japanese input module for GTK2[108] 
 * app-misc/gramps: Genealogical Research and Analysis Management 
Programming System[109] 
 * app-misc/gtktalog: The GTK disk catalog.[110] 
 * app-misc/jive: Filter that converts English text to Jive, by Adam 
Douglas[111] 
 * app-misc/jpilot: Desktop Organizer Software for the Palm Pilot[112] 
 * app-office/gnucash: A personal finance manager[113] 
 * app-office/koffice: A free, integrated office suite for KDE, the K 
Desktop Environment.[114] 
 * app-office/mrproject: Project manager for Gnome2[115] 
 * app-sci/gmt: Powerfull map generator[116] 
 * app-sci/ksimus: KSimus is a KDE tool for simulation, automatization and 
visualization of technical processes.[117] 
 * app-sci/lin-seti: A Seti@Home cache manager, cache-compatible with Seti 
Driver. Can be run as system daemon.[118] 
 * app-sci/modelsim: VHDL and mixed-VHDL/Verilog simulator[119] 
 * app-sci/orsa: ORSA Orbital Reconstruction Simulation Algorithym[120] 
 * app-sci/setiathome: Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) @ 
home[121] 
 * app-sci/yacas: very powerful general purpose Computer Algebra 
System[122] 
 * app-shells/bash: The standard GNU Bourne again shell[123] 
 * app-shells/sandboxshell: launch a sandboxed shell ... useful for 
debugging ebuilds[124] 
 * app-text/dictd: Dictionary Client/Server for the DICT protocol[125] 
 * app-text/docbook2X: Tools to convert docbook to man and info[126] 
 * app-text/epstool: Creates or extracts preview images in EPS files, 
fixes bounding boxes,converts to bitmaps.[127] 
 * app-text/gnome-spell: Gnome spellchecking component.[128] 
 * app-text/gtkspell: spell library for GTK2[129] 
 * dev-cpp/gnomemm: C++ binding for the GNOME libraries[130] 
 * dev-cpp/libgnomecanvasmm: C++ bindings for libgnomecanvasmm[131] 
 * dev-cpp/libxmlpp: C++ wrapper for the libxml XML parser library[132] 
 * dev-db/pgeasy: An easy-to-use C interface to PostgreSQL.[133] 
 * dev-db/unixODBC: ODBC Interface for Linux[134] 
 * dev-java/dom4j: dom4j is an easy to use, open source library for 
working with XML, XPath and XSLT on the Java platform using the Java 
Collections Framework and with full support for DOM, SAX and JAXP.[135] 
 * dev-java/ibm-jre: IBM JRE 1.4.0[136] 
 * dev-lang/bigwig: a high-level programming language for developing 
interactive Web services.[137] 
 * dev-lang/ghc-bin: Glasgow Haskell Compiler[138] 
 * dev-lang/gprolog: GNU Prolog is a native Prolog compiler with 
constraint solving over finite domains (FD)[139] 
 * dev-lang/mono: Mono runtime and class libraries, a C# 
compiler/interpreter[140] 
 * dev-lang/nasm: groovy little assembler[141] 
 * dev-lang/perl: Larry Wall's Practical Extraction and Reporting 
Language[142] 
 * dev-lang/python: A really great language[143] 
 * dev-lang/ruby: An object-oriented scripting language[144] 
 * dev-lang/ruby-cvs: An object-oriented scripting language[145] 
 * dev-lang/smarteiffel: GNU Eiffel compiler[146] 
 * dev-ml/lablgl: Objective CAML interface for OpenGL[147] 
 * dev-perl/Archive-Tar: A Perl module for creation and manipulation of 
tar files[148] 
 * dev-perl/Audio-Tools: Tools required by some Audio modules[149] 
 * dev-perl/Audio-Wav: Modules for reading & writing Microsoft WAV 
files.[150] 
 * dev-util/anjuta: A versatile IDE for GNOME[151] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo: A set of language and system independant CORBA 
interfaces[152] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo-activation: Gnome2 replacement for OAF[153] 
 * gnome-base/control-center: the gnome2 Desktop configuration tool[154] 
 * gnome-base/gconf: Gconf[155] 
 * gnome-base/gdm: GNOME2 Display Manager[156] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-applets: Applets for the Gnome2 Desktop and Panel[157] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-common: Some Common files for Gnome2 applications[158] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-desktop: Libraries for the gnome desktop that is not 
part of the UI[159] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-libs: GNOME Core Libraries[160] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-panel: The Panel for Gnome2[161] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-print: GNOME printing library[162] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-session: the Gnome2 session manager[163] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-vfs: Gnome Virtual Filesystem[164] 
 * gnome-extra/apotheke: A separate Nautilus view, which gives you 
detailed information about CVS managed directories.[165] 
 * gnome-extra/at-poke: the accessibility poking tool[166] 
 * gnome-extra/at-spi: This is the Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[167] 
 * gnome-extra/bonobo-conf: Bonobo Configuration System[168] 
 * gnome-extra/gal: The Gnome Application Libraries[169] 
 * media-fonts/kochi-substitute: Kochi Japanese TrueType fonts with 
Wadalab Fonts[170] 
 * media-gfx/aview: An ASCII Image Viewer[171] 
 * media-plugins/alsa-xmms: XMMS output plugin for ALSA 0.9*. Supports 
surround 4.0 output with conversion.[172] 
 * media-plugins/hayes: A filesystem-based Playlist for Noatun 2.0[173] 
 * media-plugins/mythgallery: Gallery and slideshow module for 
MythTV.[174] 
 * media-plugins/mythgame: Game emulator module for MythTV.[175] 
 * media-plugins/mythmusic: Music player module for MythTV.[176] 
 * media-plugins/mythvideo: Video player module for MythTV.[177] 
 * media-plugins/mythweather: Weather forecast module for MythTV.[178] 
 * media-sound/alsa-driver: Advanced Linux Sound Architecture kernel 
modules[179] 
 * media-sound/alsa-tools: Advanced Linux Sound Architecture tools[180] 
 * media-sound/alsa-utils: Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Utils 
(alsactl, alsamixer, etc.)[181] 
 * media-sound/ams: Alsa Modular Software Synthesizer[182] 
 * media-tv/mythtv: Homebrew PVR project.[183] 
 * media-video/avidemux: Great Video editing/encoding tool. New, gtk2 
version[184] 
 * media-video/avifile: Library for AVI-Files[185] 
 * media-video/drip: Drip - A DVD to DIVX converter frontend[186] 
 * media-video/dvdauthor: Tools for generating DVD files to be played on 
standalone DVD players[187] 
 * media-video/ffmpeg: Complete solution to record, convert and stream 
audio and video. Includes libavcodec.[188] 
 * media-video/gst-player: GStreamer Media Player[189] 
 * media-video/gxine: GTK+ Front-End for libxine[190] 
 * net-dialup/cistronradius: An authentication and accounting server for 
terminal servers that speak the RADIUS protocol.[191] 
 * net-dialup/gtkterm: A serial port terminal written in GTK+, similar to 
Windows' HyperTerminal.[192] 
 * net-firewall/firestarter: GUI for iptables firewall setup and 
monitor.[193] 
 * net-firewall/guarddog: Firewall configuration utility for KDE 3[194] 
 * net-fs/netatalk: kernel level implementation of the AppleTalk Protocol 
Suite[195] 
 * net-fs/samba: SAMBA is a suite of SMB and CIFS client/server programs 
for UNIX[196] 
 * net-im/bitlbee: Bitlbee is an irc to IM gateway that support multiple 
IM protocols[197] 
 * net-irc/ctrlproxy: IRC proxy with multiserver and multiclient 
support[198] 
 * net-irc/xchat: X-Chat is a graphical IRC client for UNIX operating 
systems.[199] 
 * net-libs/gnet: GNet network library.[200] 
 * net-libs/openhbci: Implementation of the HBCI protocol used by some 
banks[201] 
 * net-libs/openhbci-plugin-ddvcard: Plugin to use DDV cards with 
openhbci.[202] 
 * net-libs/openslp: An open-source implementation of Service Location 
Protocol[203] 
 * net-libs/soup: Soup is a SOAP implementation[204] 
 * net-nds/openldap: LDAP suite of application and development tools[205] 
 * net-nds/yp-tools: Network Information Service tools[206] 
 * net-nds/ypbind: Multithreaded NIS bind service (ypbind-mt)[207] 
 * net-nds/ypserv: Network Information Service server[208] 
 * net-news/pan: A newsreader for the Gnome2 desktop[209] 
 * net-p2p/freenet: large-scale peer-to-peer network that creates a 
massive virtual information store open to anyone[210] 
 * net-p2p/gift-cvs: An OpenFT, Gnutella and FastTrack p2p network 
client[211] 
 * net-print/gnome-cups-manager: GNOME CUPS Printer Management 
Interface[212] 
 * net-wireless/bluez-sdp: bluetooth service discovery protocol (sdp) 
utilities[213] 
 * net-www/apache: Apache Web Server, Version 2.0.x[214] 
 * sys-apps/baselayout: Base layout for Gentoo Linux filesystem (incl. 
initscripts and sysvinit)[215] 
 * sys-apps/debianutils: A selection of tools from Debian[216] 
 * sys-cluster/lam-mpi: the LAM MPI parallel computing environment[217] 
 * sys-cluster/pvm: PVM: Parallel Virtual Machine[218] 
 * sys-cluster/xpvm: XPVM: A graphical console and monitor for PVM[219] 
 * sys-devel/distcc: a program to distribute compilation of C code across 
several machines on a network[220] 
 * sys-devel/gcc: The GNU Compiler Collection. Includes C/C++ and java 
compilers[221] 
 * sys-libs/gpm: Console-based mouse driver[222] 
 * sys-libs/libchipcard: Libchipcard is a library for easy access to chip 
cards via chip card readers (terminals).[223] 
 * x11-base/kdrive: Xfree86: famous and free X server. Tiny version 
(Kdrive)[224] 
 * x11-base/xfree-drm: Xfree86 Kernel DRM modules[225] 
 * x11-libs/gtk-sharp: Gtk# is a C# language binding for the GTK2 toolkit 
and GNOME libraries[226] 
 * x11-libs/qt: QT[227] 
 * x11-libs/wxGTK: GTK+ version of wxWindows, a cross-platform C++ GUI 
toolkit.[228] 
 * x11-terms/gnome-terminal: The Gnome Terminal[229] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme: Gnome2 default icon themes[230] 
 * x11-themes/gtk-engines-geramik: GTK+1 and GTK+2 Geramik Theme 
Engine[231] 
 57. http://www.amanda.org/
 58. http://cpu.sourceforge.net/
 59. http://www.gentoo.org/
 60. http://www.gkrellm.net/
 61. http://sourceforge.net/projects/xsu/
 62. http://www.gentoo.org/
 63. http://www.prelude-ids.org
 64. http://visualversion.com/profiler/
 65. http://www.webmin.com/index6.html
 66. http://www.webmin.com/
 67. http://xsu.freax.eu.org
 68. http://flexbackup.sourceforge.net/
 69. http://cdrdao.sourceforge.net/
 70. 
http://www.fokus.gmd.de/research/cc/glone/employees/joerg.schilling/private
/cdrecord.html
 71. http://cdrx.sourceforge.net/
 72. http://k3b.sourceforge.net
 73. http://www.gnupg.org/
 74. http://www.gnupg.org/(en)/related_software/gpgme/index.html
 75. http://seahorse.sourceforge.net/
 76. http://www.gnome.org/
 77. http://www.gohome.org/wl/index.html
 78. http://atari800.sourceforge.net
 79. http://artax.karlin.mff.cuni.cz/~brain/0verkill/
 80. http://www.adom.de/
 81. http://armagetron.sourceforge.net/
 82. http://www.icculus.org/avp/
 83. http://www.advogato.org/proj/bsd-games/
 84. http://www.advogato.org/proj/bsd-games/
 85. http://www.linux-games.com/castle-combat/
 86. http://kgs.kiseido.com/
 87. http://www.reptilelabour.com/software/chromium/
 88. http://www.ibiblio.org/linsearch/lsms/dungeon-3.2.3.html
 89. http://freedoom.sourceforge.net/
 90. http://freedroid.sourceforge.net/
 91. http://www.freelords.org/
 92. http://ggz.sourceforge.net/
 93. http://ggz.sourceforge.net/
 94. http://ggz.sourceforge.net/
 95. http://home.t-online.de/home/primetime./gl-117/
 96. http://www.gnu.org/software/gnugo/devel.html
 97. http://gtetrinet.sourceforge.net/
 98. http://www.adminmod.org/
 99. http://www.unitedadmins.com/clanmod.php
 100. http://www.counter-strike.net/
 101. http://www.digitalpaintball.net/
 102. http://www.unitedadmins.com/hlguard.php
 103. http://www.metamod.org/
 104. http://www.natural-selection.org/
 105. http://www.valve.com/ 
http://www.fileplanet.com/files/50000/58368.shtml
 106. http://www.steampowered.com/
 107. http://www.hlstats.org/
 108. http://im-ja.sourceforge.net/
 109. http://gramps.sourceforge.net/
 110. http://www.freesoftware.fsf.org/gtktalog
 111. http://dev.gentoo.org/~brad/
 112. http://jpilot.org/
 113. http://www.gnucash.org/
 114. http://www.koffice.org/
 115. http://mrproject.codefactory.se/
 116. http://gmt.soest.hawaii.edu/
 117. http://ksimus.berlios.de/
 118. http://lin-seti.sourceforge.net/
 119. http://www.model.com/
 120. http://orsa.sourceforge.net
 121. http://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.edu
 122. http://yacas.sourceforge.net/
 123. http://www.gnu.org/software/bash/bash.html
 124. http://wh0rd.org/
 125. http://www.dict.org
 126. http://docbook2x.sourceforge.net
 127. http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/gsview/epstool.htm
 128. http://www.gnome.org/
 129. http://gtkspell.sourceforge.net/
 130. http://gtkmm.sourceforge.net/
 131. http://gtkmm.sourceforge.net/
 132. http://libxmlplusplus.sourceforge.net/
 133. http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/pgeasy/projdisplay.php
 134. http://www.unixodbc.org
 135. http://dom4j.sourceforge.net
 136. https://www6.software.ibm.com/dl/lxdk/lxdk-p
 137. http://www.brics.dk/bigwig/
 138. http://www.haskell.org
 139. http://pauillac.inria.fr/~diaz/gnu-prolog/
 140. http://www.go-mono.com/
 141. http://nasm.sourceforge.net/
 142. http://www.perl.org/
 143. http://www.python.org
 144. http://www.ruby-lang.org/
 145. http://www.ruby-lang.org/
 146. http://smarteiffel.loria.fr/
 147. http://wwwfun.kurims.kyoto-u.ac.jp/soft/olabl/lablgl.html
 148. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Archive/${P}.readme
 149. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Audio/${P}.readme
 150. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Audio/${P}.readme
 151. http://anjuta.sourceforge.net/
 152. http://www.gnome.org/
 153. http://www.gnome.org/
 154. http://www.gnome.org/
 155. http://www.gnome.org/
 156. http://www.gnome.org/
 157. http://www.gnome.org/
 158. http://www.gnome.org/
 159. http://www.gnome.org/
 160. http://www.gnome.org/
 161. http://www.gnome.org/
 162. http://www.gnome.org/
 163. http://www.gnome.org/
 164. http://www.gnome.org/
 165. http://apotheke.berlios.de/
 166. http://www.gnome.org/
 167. http://www.gnome.org/
 168. http://www.gnome.org/
 169. http://www.gnome.org/
 170. http://efont.sourceforge.jp/
 171. http://aa-project.sourceforge.net/aview/
 172. http://savannah.gnu.org/download/alsa-xmms/
 173. http://www.freekde.org/neil/hayes/
 174. http://www.mythtv.org/
 175. http://www.mythtv.org/
 176. http://www.mythtv.org/
 177. http://www.mythtv.org/
 178. http://www.mythtv.org/
 179. http://www.alsa-project.org/
 180. http://www.alsa-project.org
 181. http://www.alsa-project.org/
 182. http://alsamodular.sourceforge.net
 183. http://www.mythtv.org/
 184. http://fixounet.free.fr/avidemux/
 185. http://avifile.sourceforge.net/
 186. http://drip.sourceforge.net/
 187. http://sourceforge.net/projects/dvdauthor/
 188. http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net/
 189. http://www.gstreamer.net/apps/gst-player/
 190. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 191. http://www.radius.cistron.nl/
 192. http://www.jls-info.com/julien/linux/
 193. http://firestarter.sf.net
 194. http://www.simonzone.com/software/guarddog/
 195. http://netatalk.sourceforge.net
 196. http://www.samba.org
 197. http://www.lintux.cx/bitlbee.html
 198. http://people.nl.linux.org/~jelmer/ctrlproxy.php
 199. http://www.xchat.org/
 200. http://www.gnetlibrary.org/
 201. http://openhbci.sourceforge.net/
 202. http://openhbci.sourceforge.net/
 203. http://www.openslp.org
 204. http://www.gnome.org/
 205. http://www.OpenLDAP.org/
 206. http://www.linux-nis.org/nis
 207. http://www.linux-nis.org/nis/ypbind-mt/index.html
 208. http://www.linux-nis.org/nis/
 209. http://pan.rebelbase.com
 210. http://freenetproject.org/
 211. http://gift.sourceforge.net
 212. http://www.gnome.org/
 213. http://bluez.sourceforge.net/
 214. http://www.apache.org/
 215. http://www.gentoo.org/
 216. http://packages.debian.org/unstable/base/debianutils.html
 217. http://www.lam-mpi.org
 218. http://www.epm.ornl.gov/pvm/pvm_home.html
 219. http://www.csm.ornl.gov/pvm/pvm_home.html
 220. http://distcc.samba.org/
 221. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html
 222. ftp://arcana.linux.it/pub/gpm/
 223. http://www.libchipcard.de/
 224. http://www.xfree.org
 225. http://www.xfree.org
 226. http://gtk-sharp.sourceforge.net/
 227. http://www.trolltech.com/
 228. http://www.wxwindows.org/
 229. http://www.gnome.org/
 230. http://www.gnome.org/
 231. http://www.kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=3952

Total categories: 86 (no category added in the last week)
 
Total packages: 4924 (476 packages added in the last week)
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[232]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Between 27 Jun 2003 and 10 Jul 2003, activity on the 
site has resulted in: 

 232. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 424 new bugs during this period 
 * 741 bugs closed or resolved during this period 
 * 10 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3355 currently open bugs: 72 are labeled 'blocker', 135 are labeled 
'critical', and 273 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs during this period 
are: 
 
 * The Games Team[233], with 48 closed bugs[234]  
 * Martin Holzer[235], with 39 closed bugs[236]  
 * The Gnome Team[237], with 21 closed bugs[238]  
 * Alastair Tse[239], with 21 closed bugs[240]  
 * Nicholas Jones[241], with 19 closed bugs[242]  
 233. games@gentoo.org
 234. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27&chfieldto=2003-07-10 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=games%40gentoo.org
 235. mholzer@gentoo.org
 236. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27&chfieldto=2003-07-10 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=mholzer%40gentoo.org
 237. gnome@gentoo.org
 238. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27&chfieldto=2003-07-10 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=gnome%40gentoo.org
 239. liquidx@gentoo.org
 240. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27&chfieldto=2003-07-10 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=liquidx%40gentoo.org
 241. carpaski@gentoo.org
 242. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED 
&chfield=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27&chfieldto=2003-07-10 
&resolution=FIXED&assigned_to=carpaski%40gentoo.org

New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs during 
this period are: 
 
 * Martin Schlemmer[243], with 20 new bugs[244]  
 * Nicholas Jones[245], with 18 new bugs[246]  
 * The Sound Team[247], with 16 new bugs[248]  
 * The Java Team[249], with 14 new bugs[250]  
 * The XFree Team[251], with 11 new bugs[252]  
 243. azarah@gentoo.org
 244. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27 
&chfieldto=2003-07-10&=&assigned_to=azarah%40gentoo.org
 245. carpaski@gentoo.org
 246. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27 
&chfieldto=2003-07-10&=&assigned_to=carpaski%40gentoo.org
 247. sound@gentoo.org
 248. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27 
&chfieldto=2003-07-10&=&assigned_to=sound%40gentoo.org
 249. Java@gentoo.org
 250. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27 
&chfieldto=2003-07-10&=&assigned_to=Java%40gentoo.org
 251. xfree@gentoo.org
 252. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED 
&bug_status=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-06-27 
&chfieldto=2003-07-10&=&assigned_to=xfree%40gentoo.org
    
==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Using Screen
 
This week's tip demonstrates the use of screen which is a "fullscreen 
window manager that multiplexes a physical terminal between several 
processes." Practically speaking, this just means you can use screen to 
start a process in one terminal and check the output in another. 
 
While there are many options to screen (man screen), this example 
demonstrates starting an emerge on a remote box, and then checking on the 
process from another machine. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
|screen + emerge                                                          |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|    # screen                                                             |
|    # emerge -u mozilla                                                  |
|    To see the commands in screen use Ctrl-A ?                           |
|    The following command detaches the screen                            |
|    # Ctrl-A d                                                           |
|    [detached]                                                           |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Now the screen is detached, open another terminal or ssh session and view 
the available screens with screen -list. To reattach to the screen and 
check the command's progress, use screen -r. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                         |
|    # screen -list                                                       |
|    There is a screen on:                                                |
|        30901.pts-6.iris        (Detached)                               |
|    1 Socket in /var/run/screen/S-david.                                 |
|    # screen -r                                                          |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
This will reattach to the screen and display the output of the emerge 
command. 
   
===============================
10. Quote/Signature of the week
===============================
  
Our featured signature for this week comes from Christian Herzyk[253]'s 
post to a thread in gentoo-user about a problem with NVidia drivers: "So 
now I've got all these floppy-sized archive pieces, and I haven't been 
able to figure out what program I'm supposed to use to concat--er, never 
mind." - apparently it's an excerpt from a conversation he had with a 
fiend, early in his UNIX odyssey.

 253. gentoo@herzyk.de
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * Takuto Matsuu(matsuu), cjk 
 * Mamoru Komachi(usata), cjk 
 * Andrea Barisani(lcars) - infrastructure 
 * Tim Haynes(piglet) - infrastructure 
 * Corey Shields(cshields) - infrastructure 
 * Tim Schafer(srcrer) - exim, dev-java 
 * Lisa Marie Seelye(lisa), distcc 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[254].

 254. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[255] and help make GWN better.

 255. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[256] 
 * English[257] 
 * German[258] 
 * French[259] 
 * Japanese[260] 
 * Italian[261] 
 * Polish[262] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[263] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[264] 
 * Russian[265] 
 * Spanish[266] 
 * Turkish[267] 
 256. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 257. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 258. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 259. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 260. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 261. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 262. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 263. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 264. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 265. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 266. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 267. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml

  
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gentoo@blueimpulsestudios.com> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Peter Sharp <mail@psharp.uklinux.net> - Contributor
Kim Tingkaer <kim@thinkit.dk> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation

