---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of July 28th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Radical changes to Perl module handling 
 * First Gentoo Bug Day on August 2 
 * Gentoo Linux 1.4 for PowerPC now available for pre-order 
 * Indonesian documentation team in need of translators 
    
Radical changes to Perl module handling
---------------------------------------
  
A new version of perl that radically changes the way that modules are 
handled is now available in ~arch, and is slated to appear in the 1.4 
release. Perl has a list of directories in which it looks for modules 
called @INC, and the standard ordering of @INC is rather inconvenient for 
distribution maintainers. It is impossible to override the functionality 
of modules that are included in the core distribution without overwriting 
the files. That is what Gentoo has done to date, but it has some 
unfortunate side-effects. 
 
While one would expect that merging and unmerging a new version of 
ExtUtils-MakeMaker would return one's system to the state it was in 
before, it does not. Instead, ExtUtils::MakeMaker is completely wiped off 
the system, and the system becomes unable to install any more modules. In 
perl 5.8.0-r12 and beyond, @INC is augmented and reordered, so that 
versions of files in the core are actually near the bottom of the chain, 
and can be overridden easily in two well-defined ways: by the vendor 
directories and the site directories. Files in the site directories in 
turn can override those in the vendor directories. 
 
After 5.8.0-r12 has been widely installed, we will change the perl-module 
eclass so that all ebuilds in dev-perl that use it will install their 
files into the vendor directory. Up to now, they use the site directory. 
The site directory is the perl equivalent of /usr/local in the current 
opinion of the Gentoo perl team, and we are going to give users complete 
control over what goes in there, so you will never have to worry about 
Gentoo ebuilds writing into your site directories any more, and you always 
have the last say about which version of a module is going to be used. 
Want to try a version from CPAN that's a little experimental? Go ahead, 
and then just delete it from the site directory, and you will have the 
version from the ebuild right there, without any need to reemerge it. No 
longer will depclean or unmerging perl modules disable critical perl 
functionality. 
 
However, since current versions of some perl module ebuilds that are 
already installed on people's systems lay claim to critical files in the 
perl core, you need to get those off of your systems before emerging 
perl-5.8.0-r12. emerge will remind you of this by using blocking depends, 
so if you have the problematic versions of the packages installed, emerge 
-u world or emerge -u perl will abort with an error. Note that the version 
mentioned in the block is the safe version, because the block says it 
conflicts with anything prior to the safe version. Below is the list at 
this time of safe versions of the affected modules. Anything prior must be 
unmerged before emerging perl. Note that you do not necessarily need to 
remerge the safe version of these modules after installing perl 5.8.0-12, 
because the 5.8 core contains versions of these modules that are 
sufficiently recent for most uses. 
 
 * ExtUtils-MakeMaker-6.05-r6 
 * File-Spec-0.84-r1 
 * Test-Simple-0.47-r1 
    
First Gentoo BugDay on August 2
-------------------------------
  
The Gentoo Linux development team is going to dedicate a day to QA on 
Saturday, 2 August 2003, the first Gentoo BugDay. Developers and users are 
encouraged to join #gentoo-bugs on irc.freenode.net to test and fix as 
many bugs as possible. We're hoping that by periodically setting aside 
time to fix bugs and by enlisting users' help we can take a chunk out of 
the bugs open on Bugzilla[1]. So come and join the fun! 

 1. http://bugs.gentoo.org/
 
Gentoo Linux 1.4 for PowerPC now available for pre-order
--------------------------------------------------------
  
Our new Gentoo Store[2] is now now accepting pre-orders for Gentoo Linux 
1.4 for PowerPC, PowerPC G3, PowerPC G4, and the KDE/GNOME PowerPC LiveCD, 
which now contains both desktop environments on one CD. Thanks to the 
Gentoo PowerPC team for their excellent work!

 2. http://store.gentoo.org
    
Indonesian documentation in need of translators
-----------------------------------------------
  
The Indonesian documentation team is in need of translators to translate 
the Gentoo Linux project's documentation. Candidates should have a solid 
understanding of both written Indonesian as well as written English. 
Interested parties should make a visit to #gentoo-id, the Indonesian 
community channel at irc.freenode.net, or drop a line to Erwin[3]. 

 3. erwin@gentoo.org
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: nfs-utils 
 * GLSA: gnupg 
    
GLSA: nfs-utils
---------------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
"Local or remote attacker which is capable to send RPC request to 
vulnerable mountd daemon could execute arbitrary code or cause denial of 
service."
 
 * Severity: High - Potential remote file overwriting or code execution. 
 * Packages Affected: nfs-utils prior to nfs-utils-1.0.5 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge nfs-utils, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[4] 
 4. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105864493725139&w=2
    
GLSA: gnupg
-----------
  
gpg needs to be setuid to make use of protected memory space, however the 
setgid bit allowed gpg user to overwrite group root writable files and is 
therefor unnecessary. 
 
 * Severity: High - Potential remote file overwriting. 
 * Packages Affected: gnupg prior to gnupg-1.2.2-r1 
 * Rectification: Synchronize and emerge gnupg, emerge clean. 
 * GLSA Announcement[5] 
 5. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=105861895409456&w=2
    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted in the past week: 
 
 * Buffer overflow in whois client[6] 
 6. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=24860
    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
User stories will be back next week with a story about how Gentoo Linux is 
being used at Digital Illusions CE (the company which makes Battlefield 
1942). Remember to send us[7] your bizarre, hilarious, or incredible 
Gentoo stories so they can be featured here! 

 7. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Robert Coie
 
Figure 4.1: Robert Coie
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030728_rac.jpg
 
Robert Coie (rac) will be familiar to many Gentoo users, as he is often 
present in both the forums and IRC helping with support and configuration 
questions. In addition to those efforts, Robert assists with the 
administration of the forums and on the maintenance of Perl and XEmacs 
packages in portage. Robert was also involved in the initial development 
of digital signature verification for portage. 
 
Robert is an old-time Mac developer. He has contributed patches and 
bugfixes to the Macintosh port of Perl, and even developed some 
shrink-wrapped applications for the mac called "Highway" and 
"Construction" which produced mathematically-complex abstract artwork and 
animations. The applications were sufficiently popular amongst DJs in the 
Japanese club scene that Robert was featured as a televised guest on a 
Japanese culture program. Robert has also contributed to updating wireless 
LAN card drivers for the 2.2 kernel and the Linux-MIPS handheld project. 

Choosing to name his computers after female espionage agents, Robert 
works on josie (Josephine Baker), an Athlon XP 2700+ and a Titanium 
Powerbook named noor (Princess Noor Inayat Khan). He works primarily in 
XEmacs and recently moved to the Mozilla Firebird browser. He uses 
Enlightenment for his WM and used to use the MULE extensions for Japanese 
support in text editing, which lead to his current use of the emacs-based 
Oort Gnus for mail. 

Robert works for a Japanese system design and implementation firm, 
developing custom software and special-purpose Linux servers. He has been 
married for 7 years and currently lives in California, although his job 
requires a trip to Japan every few months. 
 
Robert is also a musician, playing guitar on his black sunburst '89 USA 
Fender Strat or a cherry red Ovation 1867 acoustic/electric. He likes to 
cook and frequently tries his hand at making unique seasonal and 
environmentally friendly meals. He is eclectically rounded-out with skills 
in card-playing, rowing and hiking. It is reported that he owns a hairless 
cat. It is likely that this is a normal condition for the cat. 
 
Robert spoke about Gentoo:"The highly motivated users that are willing to 
participate in improving the distribution, whether it be by filing bugs, 
testing packages, contributing ebuilds, or helping other users, are what 
gives Gentoo the strength it has." 
   
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Gentoo Framebuffer, Bootsplash
 
Bootsplash has made its way to gentoo, allowing for high resolution 
consoles and attractive backgrounds to do your hacking in. These two 
forums focus on how to get bootsplash and framebuffer working in gentoo. 
 
 * The Gentoo Framebuffer, Bootsplash & Grubsplash How-To[8] 
 * Boot Splash (background pic ala Suse) TIP of the YEAR![9] 
 8. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=49036
 9. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=26494
 
CFLAGS Optimizations
 
Optimizing your computer is one of the main reasons why gentoo users 
choose gentoo. This forum shares and discusses peoples experiences with 
different optimizations. 
 
 * CFLAGS Central[10] 
 10. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=5717
 
XD2 Port Project
 
A project to port Ximian's Desktop 2 to gentoo. It is a project to create 
ebuilds for the Ximian Gnome packages to allow Gentoo users a desktop 
environment that is polished and deviates as little from XD2 as possible. 
 
 * The Gentoo XD2 port project[11] 
 11. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=58568
 
Automounting Drives
 
Trying to get cdrom drives, floppy drives, and other devices to 
automatically mount in your Gentoo system. Look no further this forum 
discuss automounting and how to get automounting to work for you. 
 
 * automounting[12] 
 12. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=63623

DVD-burning
 
Many new technologies are quickly gaining popularity. One such advancement 
is the use of (re)writable DVD media. In the forums, a gentoo user has 
asked which program to use for burning DVDs, and the thread became a great 
informative point on DVD burning and linux. Ranging from "which media type 
should I use?" to the limitations of ISO9660, this is certainly a good 
read for anyone interested in the subject. 
 
 * burning DVD's[13] 
 13. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=53190

gentoo-user
-----------
  
What is Azarah? 
 
Just what was this phantom "Azarah Exp $" popping up in files on Robert 
Crawford's system? Curious, he quickly sent a post out. Come to find out, 
those comments were really records of the dev who last touched the files. 
However, Azarah also showed up as a storage device for Robert. Can Azarah 
really be a dev and a storage device? Click here[14] to find out! In 
reality, the user's text editor created a new line, setting Azarah as the 
mountpoint. 

 14. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/40725
 
X editors for programmers 
 
Gentoo user Nathaniel McCallum posed a relatively simple question to the 
gentoo-user list this week: "Are there any good X text editors for 
programmers that don't use GTK or QT?". It spawned a pretty large 
discussion with good suggestions, as well as a few classic emacs / vi 
cheap shots thrown in for fun. Link  here[15]. 

 15. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/40859
 
Gentoo Poll Number 2 
 
Gentoo Dev fava (Fred Van Andel) decided to repost his poll. The Question: 
"Why did you choose Gentoo?" Please send all replies to 
gentoo-poll@vanandel.net[16]. According to Fred, response to this poll has 
been slow, so feedback is welcome! The original post can be found 
here[17]. 

 16. gentoo-poll@vanadel.net
 17. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/40920
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
Booting a gentoo install from floppies
 
Mike Frysinger posted a reqest for help[18] about creating a set of 
floppies for booting, and installing, gentoo. Indubitably, Quite a few 
people[19] had something to say about it!

 18. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/10499
 19. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/10533
 
Compile Progress
 
Rutger Lubbers suggested this idea[20] about how progress is monitored in 
compiles (something all gentooists have to love!). Discussion centered 
around different dependencies this "time" calculation involves, and what 
units to use...

 20. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/10528
 
(crazy?) proposal to reduce load and disk on mirrors
 
As gentoo continues to bring new software to the user, the need for 
storage on the mirrors increases steadily. And even though mirroring the 
portage tree is a good solution for improving access to the software. It 
might not be the most effective way of storing heavy weight applications 
such as games.
 
Håvard Wall suggests the implementation of a point-to-point system that 
lets users share the larger files. That way there would almost certainly 
always be a copy of the software out there. However the scheme is not 
entirely problem free. Read the following discussion[21] as it brings both 
pros and cons.

 21. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/10459
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
There is no Gentoo International news this week 
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
week
----
  
 * app-admin/ufed: Gentoo Linux USE flags editor 
 * app-crypt/gnupg: The GNU Privacy Guard, a GPL pgp replacement[22] 
 * app-dicts/canna-cannadic: Japanese kana-kanji conversion dictionary for 
Canna[23] 
 * app-doc/doc++: Documentation system for C, C++, IDL and Java[24] 
 * app-doc/doxygen: Doxygen is a documentation system for C++, C, Java, 
IDL (Corba, Microsoft, and KDE-DCOP flavors) and to some extent PHP and 
C#.[25] 
 * app-editors/bluefish: A GTK HTML editor for the experienced web 
designer or programmer.[26] 
 * app-emulation/advancemame: GNU/Linux port of the MAME emulator, with 
GUI menu.[27] 
 * app-emulation/daphne: Laserdisc Arcade Game Emulator[28] 
 * app-gnustep/affiche: Affiche allows people to [29] 
 * app-gnustep/easydiff: GNUstep app that lets you easily see the 
differences between two text files.[30] 
 * app-gnustep/gnumail: A fully featured mail application for GNUstep[31] 
 * app-gnustep/gorm: GNUstep GUI interface designer[32] 
 * app-gnustep/gridlock: Gridlock is a collection of grid-based games[33] 
 * app-gnustep/gworkspace: GNUstep GUI interface designer[34] 
 * app-gnustep/helpviewer: HelpViewer is an online help viewer for GNUstep 
programs.[35] 
 * app-gnustep/imageviewer: ImageViewer is a small image viewer[36] 
 * app-gnustep/jigs: GNUstep java bridge[37] 
 * app-gnustep/pantomime: A set of Objective-C classes that model a mail 
system[38] 
 * app-gnustep/projectcenter: GNUstep project developer[39] 
 * app-gnustep/renaissance: GNUstep xml-based UI toolkit[40] 
 * app-gnustep/talksoup: GNUstep based IRC Client[41] 
 * app-gnustep/terminal: GNUstep GUI interface designer[42] 
 * app-misc/abook: Abook is a text-based addressbook program designed to 
use with mutt mail client.[43] 
 * app-office/abiword: Fully featured yet light and fast cross platform 
word processor.[44] 
 * app-office/gnucash: A personal finance manager[45] 
 * app-sci/chemtool: program for drawing organic molecules[46] 
 * app-shells/bash-completion: Programmable Completion for bash (includes 
emerge and ebuild commands).[47] 
 * app-shells/ksh: The Original Korn Shell, 1993 revision (ksh93)[48] 
 * app-shells/smrsh: Sendmail restricted shell, for use with MTAs other 
than Sendmail.[49] 
 * app-shells/zsh: UNIX Shell similar to the Korn shell[50] 
 * app-text/a2ps: Any to PostScript filter[51] 
 * app-text/acroread: Adobe's PDF reader[52] 
 * dev-ada/adabindx: An Ada-binding to the X Window System and *tif.[53] 
 * dev-ada/asis: The Ada Semantic Interface Specification queries and 
services provide a consistent interface to information within the Ada 
Program Library created at compile time.[54] 
 * dev-ada/cbind: This tool is designed to aid in the creation of Ada 
bindings to C.[55] 
 * dev-ada/florist: POSIX Ada Bindings[56] 
 * dev-ada/garlic: The GNAT implementation of the ARM Annex for 
Distributed Systems.[57] 
 * dev-ada/gtkada: Gtk+ bindings to the Ada language[58] 
 * dev-ada/xmlada: XML library for Ada[59] 
 * dev-cpp/gtkmm: C++ interface for GTK+2[60] 
 * dev-games/KXL: Development Library for making games for X[61] 
 * dev-games/cardpics: set of free cards sets[62] 
 * dev-games/cel: A game entity layer based on Crystal Space[63] 
 * dev-games/cel-cvs: A game entity layer based on Crystal Space[64] 
 * dev-games/clanlib: multi-platform game development library[65] 
 * dev-games/crystalspace: portable 3D Game Development Kit written in 
C++[66] 
 * dev-games/crystalspace-cvs: portable 3D Game Development Kit written in 
C++[67] 
 * dev-games/ggz-client-libs: The client libraries for GGZ Gaming Zone[68] 
 * dev-games/hlsdk: Half-Life Software Development Kit for mod authors[69] 
 * dev-games/libggz: The GGZ library, used by GGZ Gameing Zone[70] 
 * dev-games/libmaitretarot: backend library for the maitretarot games[71] 
 * dev-games/libmt_client: backend library for the maitretarot clients[72] 
 * dev-games/libnw: Tools and libraries for NWN file manipulation[73] 
 * dev-games/ode: Open Dynamics Engine SDK[74] 
 * dev-games/ogre: Object-oriented Graphics Rendering Engine[75] 
 * dev-games/simgear: Development library for simulation games[76] 
 * dev-php/mod_php: Apache module for PHP 
 * dev-php/php: PHP Shell Interpreter 
 * dev-php/php-accelerator: The ionCube PHP Accelerator[77] 
 * dev-php/phpgroupware: The phpGroupWare intranet/groupware tool and 
application framework.[78] 
 * dev-php/turck-mmcache: Turck MMCache is a free open source PHP 
accelerator, optimizer, encoder and dynamic content cache for PHP. It 
increases performance of PHP scripts by caching them in compiled state, so 
that the overhead of compiling is almost completely eliminated. Also it 
uses some optimizations to speed up execution of PHP scripts. Turck 
MMCache typically reduces server load and increases the speed of your PHP 
code by 1-10 times.[79] 
 * dev-php/xdebug: A PHP debugger[80] 
 * dev-ruby/amrita: A HTML/XHTML template library for Ruby[81] 
 * dev-tex/cweb_latex: LaTeX package for using LaTeX with CWEB 
 * dev-tex/g-brief: LaTeX package for formatting formless letters in 
german or english language.[82] 
 * dev-tex/prosper: Prosper is a LaTeX class for writing 
transparencies[83] 
 * dev-util/aap: Bram Moolenaar's super-make program[84] 
 * dev-util/anjuta: A versatile IDE for GNOME[85] 
 * gnome-base/eel: EEL is the Eazel Extentions Library[86] 
 * gnome-base/gail: Part of Gnome Accessibility[87] 
 * gnome-extra/acme: GNOME tool to make use of the multimedia buttons 
present on most laptops and internet keyboards.[88] 
 * kde-base/arts: aRts, the KDE sound (and all-around multimedia) 
server/output manager[89] 
 * media-fonts/acroread-asianfonts: Asian Font Packs for Acrobat Reader 
5.0[90] 
 * media-fonts/chkfontpath: Simple interface for editing the font path for 
the X font server[91] 
 * media-libs/SoQt: A Qt Interface for coin[92] 
 * media-tv/mythtv: Homebrew PVR project.[93] 
 * net-dns/bind: BIND - Berkeley Internet Name Domain - Name Server[94] 
 * net-dns/ldapdns: A tiny, fast authoritative nameserver that queries 
LDAP and can be updated instantly[95] 
 * net-dns/noip-updater: no-ip.com dynamic DNS updater[96] 
 * net-firewall/fwbuilder: A firewall GUI[97] 
 * net-firewall/shorewall: Full state iptables firewall[98] 
 * net-ftp/ftp: Standard Linux FTP client with optional SSL support[99] 
 * net-ftp/ftpcube: Graphical FTP client using wxPython[100] 
 * net-im/amsn: Alvaro's Messenger client for MSN[101] 
 * net-irc/bitchx: An IRC Client[102] 
 * net-libs/c-client: UW IMAP c-client library[103] 
 * net-libs/enet: relatively thin, simple and robust network communication 
layer on top of UDP[104] 
 * net-libs/gnet: GNet network library.[105] 
 * net-news/newspost: a usenet binary autoposter for unix[106] 
 * net-news/slrn: s-lang Newsreader[107] 
 * net-news/tin: A threaded NNTP and spool based UseNet newsreader[108] 
 * net-zope/xmlwidgets: UI widgets for Zope XML objects.[109] 
 * sys-devel/bc: Handy console-based calculator utility[110] 
 * sys-devel/binutils: Tools necessary to build programs[111] 
 * sys-devel/distcc: a program to distribute compilation of C code across 
several machines on a network[112] 
 * sys-devel/gcc: The GNU Compiler Collection. Includes C/C++ and java 
compilers[113] 
 * sys-kernel/aa-sources: Full sources for Andrea Arcangeli's Linux kernel 
 * sys-kernel/ac-sources: Full sources for Alan Cox's Linux kernel 
 * x11-base/kdrive: Xfree86: famous and free X server. Tiny version 
(Kdrive)[114] 
 * xfce-base/libxfce4mcs: Library's for XFCE4[115] 
 * xfce-base/libxfce4util: Library's for XFCE4[116] 
 * xfce-base/libxfcegui4: Library's for XFCE4[117] 
 * xfce-base/xfce-mcs-manager: Library's for XFCE4[118] 
 * xfce-base/xfce-mcs-plugins: Library's for XFCE4[119] 
 * xfce-base/xfce-utils: Xfce4 utilities[120] 
 * xfce-base/xfce4: XFCE4, a lightweight Desktop Environment[121] 
 * xfce-base/xfce4-panel: Xfce4 panel[122] 
 * xfce-base/xfce4-session: Xfce4 session manager[123] 
 * xfce-base/xfdesktop: Xfce4 desktop[124] 
 * xfce-base/xffm: Xfce4 file manager[125] 
 * xfce-base/xfprint: Printing plugin for XFCE4[126] 
 * xfce-base/xfwm4: Xfce4 windowmanager[127] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-iconbox: Xfce4 iconbox[128] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-mixer: Xfce4 Mixer[129] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-systemload: Xfce system load monitor[130] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-systray: Xfce4 system tray[131] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-themes: Xfce4 themes[132] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-toys: Xfce4 toys[133] 
 * xfce-extra/xfce4-trigger-launcher: Xfce trigger launcher[134] 
 * xfce-extra/xffm-icons: Icons for xffm[135] 
 * xfce-extra/xfwm4-themes: Xfwm themes[136] 
 22. http://www.gnupg.org/
 23. http://cannadic.oucrc.org/
 24. http://docpp.sourceforge.net/
 25. http://www.doxygen.org
 26. http://bluefish.openoffice.nl/
 27. http://advancemame.sourceforge.net/
 28. http://www.daphne-emu.com/
 29. 
http://www.collaboration-world.com/cgi-bin/collaboration-world/project/rele
ase.cgi?pid=5
 30. http://www.collaboration-world.com/easydiff/
 31. http://www.collaboration-world.com/gnumail/
 32. http://www.gnustep.org
 33. http://dozingcat.com/
 34. http://www.gnustep.org
 35. http://www.roard.com/helpviewer/
 36. http://www.nice.ch/~phip/softcorner.htm
 37. http://www.gnustep.org
 38. http://www.collaboration-world.com/pantomime/
 39. http://www.gnustep.org
 40. http://www.gnustep.org
 41. http://linuks.mine.nu/andy/talksoup/index.html
 42. http://www.nongnu.org/terminal/
 43. http://abook.sourceforge.net/
 44. http://www.abisource.com
 45. http://www.gnucash.org/
 46. http://ruby.chemie.uni-freiburg.de/~martin/chemtool/
 47. http://www.caliban.org/bash/index.shtml#completion
 48. http://www.kornshell.com/
 49. http://www.sendmail.org
 50. http://www.zsh.org/
 51. http://www-inf.enst.fr/~demaille/a2ps/
 52. http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/
 53. http://home.arcor.de/hfvogt/programming.html
 54. http://www.gnat.com/
 55. http://www.rational.com/
 56. http://www.cs.fsu.edu/~baker/florist.html
 57. http://www.gnat.com/
 58. http://libre.act-europe.fr/GtkAda
 59. http://libre.act-europe.fr/xmlada/
 60. http://gtkmm.sourceforge.net/
 61. http://kxl.hn.org/
 62. http://www.nongnu.org/cardpics/
 63. http://cel.sourceforge.net/
 64. http://cel.sourceforge.net/
 65. http://www.clanlib.org/
 66. http://crystal.sourceforge.net/
 67. http://crystal.sourceforge.net/
 68. http://ggz.sourceforge.net/
 69. http://www.valvesoftware.com/hlsdk.htm
 70. http://ggz.sourceforge.net/
 71. http://www.nongnu.org/maitretarot/
 72. http://www.nongnu.org/maitretarot/
 73. http://openknights.sf.net/
 74. http://opende.sourceforge.net/
 75. http://ogre.sourceforge.net/
 76. http://www.simgear.org/
 77. http://www.php-accelerator.co.uk/
 78. http://www.phpgroupware.org
 79. http://turck-mmcache.sourceforge.net/
 80. http://xdebug.derickrethans.nl
 81. http://www.brain-tokyo.jp/research/amrita/index.html
 82. 
ftp://ibiblio.org/pub/packages/TeX/macros/latex/contrib/supported/g-brief/
 83. http://prosper.sf.net/
 84. http://www.a-a-p.org/
 85. http://anjuta.sourceforge.net/
 86. http://www.gnome.org/
 87. http://www.gnome.org/
 88. http://www.hadess.net/misc-code.php3
 89. http://multimedia.kde.org
 90. http://www.adobe.com/prodindex/acrobat/readstep.html
 91. ftp://ftp.redhat.com/pub/redhat/linux/rawhide/SRPMS/SRPMS/
 92. http://www.coin3d.org/
 93. http://www.mythtv.org/
 94. http://www.isc.org/products/BIND/bind9.html
 95. http://www.nimh.org/code/ldapdns/
 96. http://www.no-ip.com
 97. http://www.fwbuilder.org/
 98. http://www.shorewall.net
 99. http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/~dholland/computers/netkit.html
 100. http://ftpcube.sourceforge.net/
 101. http://amsn.sourceforge.net
 102. http://www.bitchx.com/
 103. http://www.washington.edu/imap/
 104. http://enet.cubik.org/
 105. http://www.gnetlibrary.org/
 106. http://newspost.unixcab.org/
 107. http://slrn.sourceforge.net/
 108. http://www.tin.org/
 109. http://www.zope.org/Members/faassen/XMLWidgets
 110. http://www.gnu.org/software/bc/bc.html
 111. http://sources.redhat.com/binutils/
 112. http://distcc.samba.org/
 113. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html
 114. http://www.xfree.org
 115. http://www.xfce.org/
 116. http://www.xfce.org/
 117. http://www.xfce.org/
 118. http://www.xfce.org/
 119. http://www.xfce.org/
 120. http://www.xfce.org/
 121. http://www.xfce.org/
 122. http://www.xfce.org/
 123. http://www.xfce.org
 124. http://www.xfce.org/
 125. http://www.xfce.org/
 126. http://www.xfce.org/
 127. http://www.xfce.org/
 128. http://www.xfce.org/
 129. http://www.xfce.org/
 130. http://www.xfce.org/
 131. http://www.xfce.org/
 132. http://www.xfce.org/
 133. http://www.xfce.org
 134. http://www.xfce.org/
 135. http://www.xfce.org/
 136. http://www.xfce.org/
 
Total categories: 92 (6 categories added in the last two weeks)
 
Total packages: 5984 (1060 packages added in the last two weeks)
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[137]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Between 18 July 2003 and 24 July 2003, activity on the 
site has resulted in: 

 137. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 450 new bugs during this period 
 * 231 bugs closed or resolved during this period 
 * 7 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3405 currently open bugs: 75 are labeled 'blocker', 146 are labeled 
'critical', and 285 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs during this period 
are: 
 
 * Gentoo Sound Team[138], with 22 closed bugs[139]  
 * Nick Hadaway[140], with 20 closed bugs[141]  
 * Perl Devs[142], with 14 closed bugs[143]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[144], with 13 closed bugs[145]  
 * Nicholas Jones[146], with 11 closed bugs[147]  
 138. sound@gentoo.org
 139. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07-24&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=sound@gentoo.org
 140. raker@gentoo.org
 141. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07-24&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=raker@gentoo.org
 142. perl@gentoo.org
 143. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07-24&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=perl@gentoo.org
 144. azarah@gentoo.org
 145. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07-24&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org
 146. carpaski@gentoo.org
 147. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07-24&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=carpaski@gentoo.org

New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs during 
this period are: 
 
 * Nicholas Jones[148], with 16 new bugs[149]  
 * Michael Cummings[150], with 15 new bugs[151]  
 * PAM Gentoo Team[152], with 13 new bugs[153]  
 * Gentoo Linux Gnome Desktop Team[154], with 10 new bugs[155]  
 148. carpaski@gentoo.org
 149. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07
-24&assigned_to=carpaski@gentoo.org
 150. mcummings@gentoo.org
 151. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07
-24&assigned_to=mcummings@gentoo.org
 152. pam-bugs@gentoo.org
 153. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07
-24&assigned_to=pam-bugs@gentoo.org
 154. gnome@gentoo.org
 155. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-07-18&chfieldto=2003-07
-24&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org

==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
All about:Mozilla
 
This week's tip shows you some useful tricks in Mozilla - specifically the 
about: address. To access these special pages in Mozilla (or any Mozilla 
based browser), just enter the URL into the location bar. 
 
There are six main pages you can access to view some hidden options in 
Mozilla. These are: 
 * about: 
 * about:cache 
 * about:config 
 * about:credits 
 * about:mozilla 
 * about:plugins 
 
The addresses about:, about:credits, and about:mozilla show you some 
information about the people behind Mozilla and contain links to Mozilla 
licensing information. 
 
The next address, about:cache, displays your cache information (both disk 
and memory). Entering this address should display something similar to the 
following: 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
|about:cache                                                              |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                         |
|Memory cache device                                                      |
|                                                                         |
|Number of entries: 	210                                               |
|Maximum storage size: 	4096 k                                            |
|Storage in use: 	3943 k                                            |
|Inactive Storage: 	2630 k                                            |
|                                                                         |
|List Cache Entries                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Disk cache device                                                        |
|                                                                         |
|Number of entries: 	1468                                              |
|Maximum storage size: 	50000 k                                           |
|Storage in use: 	10180 k                                           |
|Cache Directory: 	/home/david/.galeon/mozilla/galeon/Cache          |
|                                                                         |
|List Cache Entries                                                       |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
The next address, about:plugins, displays all the plugins available in 
Mozilla. This is a great way to see what you have installed and 
troubleshoot why a particular plugin may not be working. 
 
The last address, about:config, displays just about every single 
configuration option available to Mozilla. In most Mozilla-based browsers, 
you can modify these values directly from this page - saving quite a bit 
of typing and editing preference files. 
   
========================================
10. Featured Quote/Signature of the Week
========================================
  
This week we're featuring forum user senectus[156]'s sig: "Imagine a 
school with children that can read and write, but with teachers who 
cannot, and you have a metaphor of the Information Age in which we live." 
- Peter Cochrane. 

 156. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=25078
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
 
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * Keith Wesolowski (wesolows) -- sparc, mips 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[157].

 157. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[158] and help make GWN better.

 158. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[159] 
 * English[160] 
 * German[161] 
 * French[162] 
 * Japanese[163] 
 * Italian[164] 
 * Polish[165] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[166] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[167] 
 * Russian[168] 
 * Spanish[169] 
 * Turkish[170] 
 159. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 160. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 161. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 162. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 163. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 164. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 165. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 166. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 167. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 168. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 169. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 170. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml
  
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gentoo@blueimpulsestudios.com> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Peter Sharp <mail@psharp.uklinux.net> - Contributor
Kim Tingkaer <kim@thinkit.dk> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
