---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of December 29th, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * First Anniversary of the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter 
 * GWN Staff Profiles 
    
First Anniversary of the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
-------------------------------------------------
  
This week marks the first anniversary of the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, 
whose first issue[1] was published on 23 December 2002. As inaugural 
editor Kurt Lieber[2] said, "the GWN was started as a way of giving the 
Gentoo community one source of information about the Gentoo Linux 
project." We've added, changed, and retired sections; and contributors and 
translators have come and gone, but we hope to continue to provide you 
with news about your favorite Linux distribution. 

 1. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/20021223-newsletter.xml
 2. klieber@gentoo.org
 
To celebrate the first anniversary, this week we're bringing you some 
special content. First, for those of you who've wondered who we are, we 
have profiles of the contributors and translators from whom we were able 
to catch and force a picture and some words. In both Featured Developer 
and the new semiregular Developer Interviews we're interviewing chief 
architect Daniel Robbins[3]. In the first interview you'll find out about 
Daniel and his role in the project, and in the latter about new features 
being considered or in development, and the future of the project. 

 3. drobbins@gentoo.org
 
We'd like to thank the great team of contributors and translators who make 
the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter possible. As always, we're seeking volunteers 
to help make the GWN better; see the end of the newsletter if you're 
interested. 
    
GWN Staff Profiles
------------------
  
Figure 1.1: Yuji Kosugi
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_carlos.jpg
 
Yuji Kosugi[4] has worked on the GWN since its inception at the end of 
2002, mostly on the Featured Developer section, and has been the editor 
since July 2003. A freshman majoring in mathematics at Brown University in 
Providence, Rhode Island, USA, he spent way too much of his first semester 
there playing Cosmic Encounter, Magic:the Gathering, Dance Dance 
Revolution, and other games instead of going to class. Yuji also practices 
Aikido and enjoys juggling. 

 4. carlos@gentoo.org
 
Contributors
 
Figure 1.2: AJ Armstrong
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_aja.jpg
 
AJ Armstrong[5] (aja) is responsible for our Featured Developer and 
Bugzilla sections. He is an instructor in Computer Engineering Technology 
at the Northern Alberta Institute of Technology. He is an omnivorous 
reader who practices Karate and enjoys SCUBA diving. He lives in Edmonton, 
Canada with his wife, who is expecting their first child in April. 

 5. aja@gentoo.org
 
Figure 1.3: Brian Downey
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_bd.jpg
 
Brian Downey[6] heads up the gentoo-user mailing list summaries, and just 
got married earlier this year at the age of 28. Hailing from Farmington, 
Michigan, USA (just outside of Detroit) Brian enjoys jamming[7] on drums & 
guitar or working on building up the small Linux consulting start-up[8] he 
founded in 2002. He also works full-time for a large Detroit financial 
company and is proud of the progress he has made transitioning servers to 
Gentoo Linux in that organization. A self-admitted Apple Mac fan, he 
explains it simply: "OS X rocks." His motto is unsurprisingly 
Unix-influenced: "If you're going to do it, you might as well do it 
right." 

 6. me@briandowney.net
 7. http://glori5.com
 8. http://thelinuxfix.com
 
Luke Giuliani[9] (coldflame) is responsible for our -dev mailing list 
update section. He is a student at the University of Melbourne, studing 
Engineering (Mechatronics)/Computer Science. In his spare (and not so 
spare) time he enjoys consuming copious amounts of coffee, shooting pool, 
and arguing philosophy with friends. He lives in Melbourne, Australia. 

 9. cold_flame@mail.com
 
Figure 1.4: David Narayan
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_david.jpg
 
David Narayan[10] is responsible for our Tips & Tricks section. He works 
as a systems administrator for a university in Georgia (United States). 
When not at work he can usually be found playing pool or backpacking. 

 10. david@gentoo.org
 
Figure 1.5: Ulrich Plate
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_plate.jpg
 
Ulrich Plate[11], responsible for the weekly Forum fallout and the 
International news section, has just turned 40 last month. When he joined 
the GWN team at its inauguration one year ago, he was still on post in 
Tokyo, representing a number of European IT companies in Japan and Asia. 
Since his repatriation to Germany in May, he is Managing Director of a 
small technology consultancy[12] in the Taunus mountain range just outside 
of Frankfurt am Main, focussing on open source migration strategies and IT 
security. As a former journalist he's delighted to get to write stuff at 
least once a week for the GWN, and could definitely use some more pressure 
to fulfill his duties as a Forum moderator and press relations officer for 
Gentoo Linux. His motto is borrowed from Douglas Adams: "I love deadlines. 
I like the whooshing sound they make as they fly by." 

 11. plate@gentoo.org
 12. http://www.ngenn.net
 
German Translators
 
Marc Herren aka dj-submerge[13] is 26 years old and lives in Bern 
(Switzerland). He's using Linux since 1998 and Gentoo for about 2 years. 
Currently he's working as a project leader in a networking company mainly 
dealing with HP-UX and Linux. Besides computers he plays volleyball a lot 
and spins the turntables. 

 13. dj-submerge@gentoo.org
 
Tobias Scherbaum aka dertobi123[14] is 22 and lives in Oberhausen 
(Germany). He is using Gentoo for something about one and a half year. 
Since december he's reponsible for german translations within the Gentoo 
Documentation Project. 

 14. dertobi123@gentoo.org
 
Steffen aka MadEagle[15] ist 32, lives in Hamburg (Germany) and is an IT 
Consultant when he is not translating the GWN. He uses Linux on and off 
since 1998 but for the last two years consistently Gentoo. 

 15. madeagle@gentoo.org
 
Tobias aka SirSeoman[16] is 23 and lives in Trier (Germany). Besides being 
a translator for the GWN, he is a student of applied computer science at 
the Trier University of Applied Sciences. He is using linux and Gentoo 
permanently for 6 months and learns more daily. 

 16. SirSeoman@gentoo.org
 
Daniel aka Sputnik1969[17] lives in Berlin (Germany), is 34 years young 
and uses Linux since 1998 and Gentoo since Spring 2002. If he doesn't 
translates parts of the GWN he's looking for a new job as a Software 
Developer or System Administrator. 

 17. sputnik1969@gentoo.org
 
Thomas Raschbacher aka LordVan[18] is 21 years old and lives in Austria. 
He's using Linux since 1995 and Gentoo for about 2 years. Currently he's 
self employed as a Computer reseller and consultant. When he's not coding 
or translating GWN he's usually listening to music, read Mangas or watch 
Animes. 

 18. lordvan@gentoo.org
 
Matthias aka haim[19] is 21 and lives in Vienna (Austria). When he isn't 
translating the GWN into German language, he is working as a freelancing 
Linux IT Consultant. In his spare time, Matthias likes to party with 
friends or reading an interesting book. 

 19. haim@gentoo.org
 
Italian Translators
 
Figure 1.6: Marco Mascherpa
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_marco.jpg
 
Marco Mascherpa, italian lead translator, is 24 years old and he lives 
with his family in Milan, Italy. After the last exam left to pass, he's 
going to get a degree in Information Engineering and now he's quite busy 
studying and writing his thesis about Open Source software in the 
enterprise. His interests include playing with Gentoo, watching movies, 
reading books and playing strategy games. 
 
Figure 1.7: Claudio Merloni
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_claudio.jpg
 
Claudio Merloni aka paper is 25 years old, born and living in Milan, 
Italy. He is currently fighting against the last exam left to obtain a 
degree in Computer Engineering at the Politecnico of Milan, while working 
on his thesis on Natural Language Processing. When not trying to break his 
Gentoo, he enjoys playing on his piano or listening to music, from jazz to 
progressive rock. 
 
Christian Apolloni aka bsolar lives in Lugano, Switzerland and is studying 
Computer Science at the Swiss-Italian University of Applied Science. He 
likes to go to the cinema, go-karting and reading. 
 
Figure 1.8: Stefano Lucidi
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_stefano.jpg
 
Stefano Lucidi is 23 years old and at the moment lives in Rome (italy). He 
studies computer science. He loves power and progressive metal 
(stratovarius, dream theater etc etc). During waste time he likes to play 
the guitar, read, code in his favourite languages (C, python and java), 
test open source software or update his Gentoo portal Gentoo Italia[20]. 

 20. http://www.gentoo-italia.org/
 
Russian Translators
 
Sergey Galkin aka Zlodey[21] is 26 and lives in Saratov (Russia). He uses 
Linux since 2001 and Gentoo for the last year. Currently he's working as a 
network administrator managing Ciscos' devices and servers running Gentoo, 
Solaris and FreeBSD 

 21. sergey_zlodey@mail.ru
 
Sergey Kuleshov aka svyatogor[22] is 18 years old and lives in Cyprus. 
He's been using Linux for the last 3 years and switched to Gentoo around a 
year ago. Apart from being a GWN translator he's also a follow-up 
translator for the Russian team and lead of the Gentoo Documentation 
Internationalisation Subproject. In real life he's a student doing his 
B.Sc. in "Maths Computing and Statistic" 

 22. svyatogor@gentoo.org
 
Aleksandr Martyncev aka Aleks[23] is 17 years old. He lives in Bryansk 
(Russia) and works as a programmer for one of the enterprises. He began 
using Linux in 2003 and seems to really like it When Aleksandr joined our 
team he didn't use Gentoo, but now he's got strong interest in this 
distro. 

 23. amncorp@bk.ru
 
Alex Spirin aka asp13[24] (don't mix with a dozen of others :) is 26 years 
old and lives in Saratov city (Russia, Volga-river). He's doing his best 
in order not waste any time on his way to work/home. Alex works as a 
network administrator maintaining Ciscos' devices and other "damned stuff" 
and certainly uses Gentoo, especially the _very_ powerful Gentoo LiveCD. 
He hopes it was him who invented (or probably stolen?) the best Gentoo's 
motto - "Emerge YOUR world". 

 24. asp13@mail.ru
    
=================================
2. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Daniel Robbins
 
Figure 2.1: Daniel Robbins with daughter Tzipporah
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20031229_drobbins.jpg
 
In honour of our anniversary edition, we are featuring an interview with 
Daniel Robbins[25] (drobbins), the founder of Gentoo. The interview is in 
a question-and-answer format rather than our usual summary format, to give 
Daniel a chance to speak directly about the distro, it's origins and where 
it's going. 

 25. drobbins@gentoo.org
 
GWN: Tell us a bit about yourself.
 
I was born in Montreal, Canada, and lived there until I was eight. Then I 
moved with my mom to Brookline, MA (Boston area) where I stayed until I 
finished high school. I spent most of a year at WPI (Worcester Polytechnic 
Institute) before dropping out near the end of my freshman year. I then 
started working, including a stint at Sony Electronic Publishing. After 
that, I moved out to Albuquerque, New Mexico, where I met and married my 
wife, and where we now live with our two young daughters, Hadassah and 
Tzipporah. 
 
In Albuquerque, I've had various computer-related jobs such as serving as 
a syadmin at the University of New Mexico. This is where I first started 
using GNU/Linux. For the last 3 or 4 years, I've done a lot of writing for 
IBM developerWorks, SAMS and Intel Developer Services, which became a 
close to a full-time thing. For most of 2003, a sponsor in Germany has 
been generously supporting me financially so that I can work on Gentoo 
full-time. So now I'm now devoting all of my work-related efforts to 
moving Gentoo forward. 
 
GWN: Could you tell us about how Gentoo started?
 
I became involved in the development of Stampede Linux, but wasn't 
enjoying the experience. So I decided to create my own distribution to 
learn about Linux. Because I was working by myself, I had to make sure 
that everything was as automated as possible, and that's when the 
development of Portage began. At that time, Gentoo was called Enoch. 
 
GWN: What do you see on the horizon for Gentoo in the near term? In the 
long term?
 
For 2004, you'll see us move to a quarterly release schedule, and 
transition to a new naming scheme -- the next release of Gentoo will be 
called "Gentoo Linux 2004." Under the hood, you'll see the fruits of 
several efforts to improve quality, organization and efficiency within our 
thriving and rapidly-growing community project. 
 
Organizationally, we will be moving to a not-for-profit organizational 
model some time in 2004, and will continue to improve our ability to 
develop and deliver innovative technologies to the public. You'll also see 
portage-ng ("portage -- next generation") development begin, as we work on 
a full community-driven redesign of our package manager/ports system. 
Overall, you'll see Gentoo continue to grow and flourish. 
 
Beyond this? We'll continue to have fun and focus on delivering powerful 
free solutions to the public. 
 
GWN: What role do you think Gentoo plays (or will play) in the broader 
Linux and Open Source communities as they gain more market share and media 
attention?
 
I think there is a tendency for Linux-related technologies to become 
commercialized and "less free" due to the involvement of for-profit 
companies, some of which tend to be more pragmatic than idealistic in 
their day-to-day behavior. Their actions often end up working against the 
"hacker ethos." In contrast, our efforts are focused on advancing the 
hacker ethos, because we're all hackers. That's why people tend to become 
quite devoted to Gentoo -- because they can see we're doing and are 
excited about that vision. Having a thriving free software community is 
more than just choosing the right license. 
 
GWN: Is there anything you'd like to say to the Gentoo community?
 
Thank you for using Gentoo Linux and please be sure to let us know how we 
can make Gentoo better for you. Gentoo is what it is today because of 
community involvement. 
   
======================
3. Developer Interview
======================
  
This week we're beginning a new, semiregular Developer Interview section. 
Like in Featured Developer of the Week, this section will be based on an 
interview of a developer, but here we'll focus more on what these 
developers can tell us about Gentoo Linux and its future. As it turns out 
this week we're interviewing Daniel Robbins[26] again; here's what he had 
to tell us:

 26. drobbins@gentoo.org
 
GWN: Thanks for taking the time to talk a bit with us here at the GWN.
 
You're welcome :)
 
GWN: Your title is "Chief architect", but what do you actually do within 
the Gentoo Linux Project?
 
My efforts are generally focused on "stretching" or elevating Gentoo as a 
project in certain critical areas, usually technical. With a project as 
large and dynamic as Gentoo, there is often a lack of focus. My job these 
days is to get certain things on the agenda -- things that are important 
goals, and may not otherwise happen if someone isn't pushing for them.
 
Because of my position on the project, I can push things forward that 
others may not be able to move forward by themselves. A lot of my efforts 
have to do with helping others to get their important efforts moving 
forward and bearing fruit
 
GWN: With Gentoo currently storming on, and gaining popularity 
(Distrowatch.com labels Gentoo 4th most popular distro within the last 12 
months), what do you think has made Gentoo such a succes. 
 
A lot of things. From its inception, I made a very concerted effort to 
make Gentoo the ideal distribution for true Linux power users and 
developers. This allowed us to attract a lot of talented people rather 
quickly. We had a very liberal developer recruitment policy, which allowed 
us to grow rapidly.
 
When we had a lot of skilled developers who were making Gentoo better, a 
user community started to form. Our development team did a lot of good 
things to nourish this user community and be responsive to its needs. 
Because we took care of Gentoo users, a lot of Gentoo users seemed to get 
rather excited and started helping out newcomers to Gentoo as well.
 
Then we had another level of growth, where things like the forums really 
flourished. Users were helping other users, and this created a really 
healthy ecosystem for Gentoo, and this is something that we continue to 
enjoy today.
 
GWN: Speaking of the current succes, you recently announced the start of 
Portage-ng development 
(http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/devrel/manager/meetings/summaries/2003/20031
103.xml). You outlined as a goal that portage-ng should be "beyond 
peoples' wildest expectations. Would you care to elaborate a bit on what 
we can expect.
 
You can expect all planning, goal-setting and development to be done 
publicly, with full accountability and involvement of our user and 
developer community. This is the only way we can approach a project as 
significant as portage-ng.
 
By making the community the key part of this process, and collecting their 
ideas and requirements for portage-ng, the result will indeed be beyond 
what any of us could have thought up all by ourselves.
 
GWN: Gentoo 1.4 was released a while ago, what can we expect from the 
upcoming Gentoo release?
 
We're moving to a new year-based versioning scheme, so the next release of 
Gentoo will be called Gentoo Linux 2004. We're also moving to a quarterly 
release schedule, and all our releases will be built with the new catalyst 
build tool. Users will be able to rebuild the entire release using a 
stage1 and a portage snapshot. Our LiveCDs will be user-rebuildable and 
tweakable, thanks to catalyst. You can learn more about our plans at the 
release engineering project page[27].

 27. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/releng/
 
GWN: When can we expect the change to kernel 2.6?
 
Kernel 2.6 will be supported as an option in Gentoo Linux 2004. We will 
continue to support 2.4 for as long as people need it. When the driver 
support in 2.6 begins to surpass 2.4 in breadth and quality, then we'll 
look into making a 2.6 kernel the "default" kernel. This may happen sooner 
rather than later, because the 2.6 kernel series seems to be off to a fine 
start.
 
GWN: Could we expect a GUI installer to be developed for an upcoming 
Gentoo release?
 
I think this is likely to happen in late 2004. In the past, we've had 
several developer-led installer projects start, fizzle, and then die. 
Generally, this was because these installer efforts were pet projects of 
one or two developers and never really got support or interest from the 
rest of the project. People who work on installers have historically 
tended to be "lone ranger"-style developers, and a fair number of our 
developers don't really care about having a graphical installer.
 
Before we start another installer project, we really need to create some 
consensus about what our goals for the installer should be. Once we have a 
clear and inspiring vision for how the Gentoo installer should operate, it 
can be accepted project-wide. Then we can get a project organized and 
finally get a cutting-edge installer done for Gentoo that everyone can be 
proud of.
 
GWN: Everyone cares about security these days, many distros now ship with 
a firewall enabled per default, Microsoft even started to compile their 
software with a compiler with stack protective measures (like ProPolice). 
What can we expect Gentoo to do in terms of encouraging safe computing in 
the near future?
 
The fundamentals include more use of GPG in critical areas of Gentoo and 
Portage and more organization and focus in regard to our GLSAs (Gentoo 
Linux Security Advisories.) But the key work in this area is happening 
thanks to several ambitious efforts being pursued by our hardened 
project[28], led by Joshua Brindle (Method)

 28. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/hardened/
 
There seems to be some indication that there will be a "hardened" version 
of Gentoo available some time in 2004, thanks to the efforts of this 
project.
 
GWN: What current development in the Linux community are you most looking 
forward to?
 
My focus is unbashedly on Gentoo. Technically, I am most looking forward 
to Gentoo Linux 2004, catalyst and especially portage-ng. From a larger 
perspective, I'm looking forward to seeing our development team and user 
community continue to create, innovate and inspire. As a project manager, 
I'm most looking forward to watching Gentoo become more "professional" by 
adopting software development practices that allow us to drastically 
improve quality and user involvement throughout the entire project.
 
Organizationally, I'm looking forward to seeing Gentoo transition to a 
not-for-profit entity or entities some time in 2004, which will mark a new 
level of maturity for Gentoo as an organization.
   
==================
4. Gentoo Security
==================
   
There were no new security announcements or bugs this week.
    
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Flash For PPC
 
Slow week for most of the Forums (except for a particularly untimely 
flurry of gratuitious flamemongering in the Off the Wall section). Among 
the more useful things to be posted was g-rem's[29] howto for getting 
Macromedia's flash player to work in Linux on Macintosh - so useful, in 
fact, that it got replicated into the Italian forum right away:

 29. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=35400
 
 * Macromedia Flash Player 6 on Linux PPC with Qemu[30] 
 * finalmente flash per ppc .....[31](Italian) 
 30. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=117936
 31. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=117774
    
gentoo-user
-----------
  
Downtime and Upstream
 
With people cheering wildly at the reinstatement of the gentoo-user 
mailing list after four days of downtime, they seem to have encountered 
mostly non-Gentoo-specific development problems further up the stream, 
specifically concerning the odd Christmas install of a freshly minted 2.6 
kernel:
 
 * We live![32] 
 * devfs and udev (kernel 2.6 and beyond)[33] 
 32. http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/59104
 33. http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/59398
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
A move of development sources.
 
As some people may be aware, the linux kernel recently reached version 
2.6.0. As this is technically a stable release, the question was asked 
whether vanilla-sources in the portage tree should now point to these 
sources. Have a look here[34] for the full discussion, including arguments 
for and against.

 34. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/14633
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Italy: Major Revamp of GECHI Website Under Way
 
Two stickies in the Italian Gentoo forum talk about the redistribution of 
tasks for the GECHI (GEntoo CHannel Italia) website[35]. If you feel like 
helping out with the technical administration workload or with content 
creation, kindly respond to these[36] two[37] threads.

 35. http://www.gentoo.it
 36. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=115348
 37. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=115251
   
========================================
7. Bugzilla - Annual Closed Bug Rankings
========================================
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[38]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Over the year following the first publication of the 
GWN, the developers and teams who closed the most bugs are: 

 38. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * Gentoo Games[39], with 686 closed bugs[40]  
 * Gentoo Gnome Desktop Team[41], with 653 closed bugs[42]  
 * Gentoo KDE Team[43], with 598 closed bugs[44]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[45], with 576 closed bugs[46]  
 * Martin Holzer[47], with 559 closed bugs[48]  
 * Nick Hadaway[49], with 376 closed bugs[50]  
 * Nicholas Jones[51], with 342 closed bugs[52]  
 39. games@gentoo.org
 40. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=games@gentoo.org
 41. gnome@gentoo.org
 42. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org
 43. kde@gentoo.org
 44. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=kde@gentoo.org
 45. azarah@gentoo.org
 46. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org
 47. mholzer@gentoo.org
 48. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=mholzer@gentoo.org
 49. raker@gentoo.org
 50. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=raker@gentoo.org
 51. carpaski@gentoo.org
 52. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2002-12-23&chfieldto=2003-12-23&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=carpaski@gentoo.org

   
==================
8. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Linux Magic System Request Key Hacks
 
This week's tip is about the 'magic' SysRq key that can be used to send 
events to the kernel in Linux. 
 
To enable the SysRq key, compile CONFIG_MAGIC_SYSRQ into the kernel. To 
disable it during runtime, use echo "0" > /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq.
 
To use the SysRq key, use ALT-SysRq-<commmand key>. This allows you to 
send commands straight to the kernel that will be executed immediately 
unless the machine is completely locked up.
 
Some of the many uses of SysRq are:
 
 * Kill all programs on the current virtual console 
 * Immediately reboot the system 
 * Sync all filesystems 
 * Dump memory info to the console 
 * Kill all processes except init 
 * Set the console log level 
 
For more detailed information on using SysRq see the kernel documentation 
at /usr/src/linux/Documentation/sysrq.txt
   
===========================
9. Moves, Adds, and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * Luke-Jr 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * none this week 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project:
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
10. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[53].

 53. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
11. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[54] and help make the GWN better.

 54. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
12. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
13. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[55] 
 * English[56] 
 * German[57] 
 * French[58] 
 * Japanese[59] 
 * Italian[60] 
 * Polish[61] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[62] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[63] 
 * Russian[64] 
 * Spanish[65] 
 * Turkish[66] 
 55. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 56. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 57. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 58. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 59. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 60. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 61. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 62. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 63. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 64. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 65. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 66. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml
  
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brian Downey <bdowney@briandowney.net> - Contributor
Luke Giuliani <cold_flame@email.com> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
David Nielsen <Lovechild@foolclan.com> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Xavier Neys <neysx@gentoo.org> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Lukas Domagala <Cyrik@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Tobias Scherbaum <dertobi123@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Daniel Gerholdt <Sputnik1969@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marc Herren <dj-submerge@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Tobias Matzat <SirSeoman@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Aleksandr Martyncev <amncorp@bk.ru> - Russian Translator
Sergey Galkin <gals_home@list.ru> - Russian Translator
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Alex Spirin <asp13@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Denis Zaletov <dzaletov@rambler.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
