---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gentoo Weekly Newsletter
http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/current.xml
This is the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter for the week of September 1st, 2003.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
==============
1. Gentoo News
==============
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Portage tarballs available for OpenBSD and FreeBSD 
 * Second Gentoo BugDay to be held on September 6 
 * Gentoo Documentation team looking for new French lead translator 
    
Portage tarballs available for OpenBSD and FreeBSD
--------------------------------------------------
  
Grant Goodyear[1] has put together tarballs that can be used to install 
Portage on OpenBSD and FreeBSD. While there's still a long way before 
you'll be able to install a Gentoo/BSD system from stage-1, as Grant said 
in his announcement[2] to gentoo-dev, this is the first step on the road 
to generating one, and we encourage users to test these tarballs, as well 
as to experiment with constructing a true Gentoo *BSD stage-1 tarball. For 
more information, read the above announcement, or check out Grant's 
page[3] on Gentoo + *BSD. 

 1. g2boojum@gentoo.org
 2. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/11545/
 3. http://dev.gentoo.org/~g2boojum/
    
Second Gentoo BugDay to be held on September 6
----------------------------------------------
  
Since last month's Gentoo BugDay was such a success, we're going to have 
another one next Saturday, on September 6, and on the first Saturday of 
each month from now on. Come on down to the #gentoo-bugs channel on 
irc.freenode.net, and help us squash bugs and maintain the high quality 
of our distribution - it's also a great opportunity for devs and users 
to get to know each other. 
    
Gentoo Documentation team looking for new French lead translator
----------------------------------------------------------------
  
The Gentoo Documentation team is looking for a new French lead translator. 
Responsibilities would include coordinating the translations, verifying 
the translated version, and committing it to CVS so it can be viewed on 
the website. A solid reading knowledge of both written French and written 
English is a requirement; familiarity with XML and CVS would be helpful 
but can be acquired after taking the position if necessary. Interested 
parties should send an email to Sergey Kuleshov[4]. 

 4. svyatogor@gentoo.org
    
==================
2. Gentoo Security
==================
  
Summary
-------
  
 * GLSA: vmware-workstation 
    
GLSA: vmware-workstation
------------------------
  
Quote from advisory: 
 
"By manipulating the VMware GSX Server and VMware Workstation environment 
variables, a program such as a shell session with root privileges could be 
started when a virtual machine is launched. The user would then have full 
access to the host."
 
 * Severity: High - local full host access. 
 * Packages Affected: <vmware-workstation-4.0.1-5289 
<vmware-workstation-3.2.1-2242 
 * Rectification: emerge sync; emerge vmware-workstation-(insert the 
version you want here); emerge clean 
 * GLSA Announcement[5] 
 5. http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=gentoo-announce&m=106181867621048&w=2

    
New Security Bug Reports
------------------------
  
The following new security bugs were posted in the past week: 
 
 * VMware Workstation 4.0.2, Build 5592 security update[6] 
 * buffer overflow in pam_smb[7] 
 6. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=27293
 7. http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=27406

    
===============
3. User stories
===============
  
User stories is on hiatus this week. Remember to send us[8] your bizarre, 
hilarious, or incredible Gentoo stories so they can be featured here! 

 8. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
=================================
4. Featured Developer of the Week
=================================
  
Lars Weiler
 
Figure 4.1: Lars Weiler
http://www.gentoo.org/images/gwn/20030901_pylon.jpg
 
We are pleased to present Lars Weiler[9] (pylon) as this week's featured 
developer. Lars works on Gentoo's PPC development team as well as taking 
lead responsibilities for German Translation on the International Document 
Subproject of the Gentoo Documentation Project[10]. He is also involved 
with the Infrastructure Team[11] in dealing with CVS and viewcvs issues 
and configuration. Gentoo is his first major OSS project, which he has 
compensated for with involvement in so many disparate aspects of the work.

 9. pylon@gentoo.org
 10. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/gdp/
 11. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/infrastructure/
 
Lars first heard of Gentoo in mid-2002 and first installed it on his iBook 
in November of that year, needing a few months to get everything working 
the way he wanted. He became a developer on the PPC project in March of 
2003 and completed the migration of his x86 box to Gentoo in May. He 
enjoys working within the Gentoo community, and frequently travels around 
Europe to meet other developers. As a PPC user, he appreciates the ebuild 
system, as it makes it easy for him to fine-tune applications to suit his 
needs - the "compile everything you need" functionality serves him well.
 
In addition to his Gentoo work, Lars is an active member of the Chaos 
Computer Club[12], a German "white-hat" hacker group. He provides some of 
the organization activities and much of the press relations for the 
organization. He has been a student at the German University of Applied 
Sciences in Krefeld as well as attending courses at the Fontys Hoogeschool 
in Venlo, the Netherlands. His coursework has focused on a diploma in the 
somewhat esoteric field of Mechatronics (a mixture of Mechanics, 
Electronics and Informatics).

 12. http://www.ccc.de
 
Lars has two Gentoo boxen: a 600 MHz Apple iBook that is his primary 
development and testing platform (not to mention providing a DVD movie 
player for train rides), as well as a 5 year old PIII-700 that provides 
backup services as well as some multi-media features. Lars multimedia 
requirements are further serviced by a Fuji FinePix7400 digital camera 
that is always to hand. He prefers the more streamlined fluxbox desktop 
environment to KDE or Gnome. He generally uses a highly-customized mutt 
client for mail, LaTeX for word-processing. In addition, he frequently 
uses gnome-terminal, irssi, gkrellm, xpad, psi and MozillaFirebird.
 
Lars speaks four languages: German, English, French and Dutch. Buffer 
overflow has apparently caused him to lose much of his Latin. He lives in 
the German state of Northrhine-Westfalia, in the city of Krefeld on the 
banks of the Rhine. He frequently travels to the nearby cities of 
Dusseldorf and Cologne. Lars reminded us of the motto of the 18th Chaos 
Communication Congress: "Hacking is not a crime."
   
=========================
5. Heard in the Community
=========================
  
Web Forums
----------
  
Kitchen Metaphore
 
Non-Gentooists mock the seemingly complicated, indisputably lengthy 
procedure of downloading tarballs of source code, compiling them with the 
help of an ebuild, only to end up with a binary application like everybody 
else. So how does one explain the Gentoo way to the uninitiated? 
Difficult? Enter TGL[13], who has got it all in a remarkably simple 
one-liner. It probably takes a French to come up with the beautiful 
analogy to cooking: Tarballs are the ingredients, ebuilds are the recipe, 
and you get to be your own chef around the kitchen. Haute cuisine, so much 
tastier than pre-cooked RPMs...

 13. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=1845
 
 * [Question nulle !!] Au moins vous êtes prévénus...[résolu][14] (in 
French)
 14. 

The Mobile Gentooist Buyer's Guide
 
Wondering about the right laptop configuration? Want to get that WiFi 
thing to work? The Forum users are discussing all kinds of things, 
including which hardware to get, and how to tweak things so they work 
well. This is a frequently recurring issue, check some of the more recent 
threads about portable computers and wireless cards for penultimate Gentoo 
pleasure:
 
 * Most successful laptop configuration[15] 
 * How Many Fully Working Gentoo Notebooks...[16] 
 * Best wireless ethernet card solution for gentoo[17] 
 15. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=60257
 16. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=63116
 17. http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic.php?t=60290
    
gentoo-user
-----------
  
Testing GCC with Python 
 
User Adam Dunstan was curious[18] whether using -march=pentium4 on his GCC 
3.2.3 Gentoo box was safe yet. List member Gabor replied with a cool 
Python trick that allows a user to quickly tell if his GCC compiler was 
affected by the -pentium4 bug. 

 18. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C0
04401c36c7d%24b7ea4000%240100a8c0%40sammy%3E
 
Backing Up Gentoo 
 
Backups are often ignored until it's too late. List member Pupeno asked 
for some suggestions[19] on backing up his entire Gentoo installation to a 
separate hard disk. Read on for some tips, as well as some 
user-contributed backup scripts. 

 19. 
http://news.gmane.org/onethread.php?group=gmane.linux.gentoo.user&root=%3C2
00308281806.51556.pupeno%40kde.org%3E
    
gentoo-dev
----------
  
Gentoo Calender.
 
With such a huge project, and so many different aspects, it can often 
become difficult to organise things. One thing suggested this week to help 
ease the trouble was the implementation of a  Gentoo Calender [20] Where 
important dates could be recorded and remembered.

 20. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/11738/
 
Desktops desktops and more desktops
 
One of those parts that most of us would never live without in our Gentoo 
system is our  desktop. [21] This thread raises the interesting discussion 
of what elements of our system are actually part of the desktop, and how 
much interaction and control the Gentoo base should have over it.

 21. http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/11655/
    
=======================
6. Gentoo International
=======================
  
Europe: Protest Against Software Patents
 
KDE closed its website, Apache.org was down, GNOME out of business? What 
happened? Well: The question should be "What will happen?" On Monday, 1 
September, the European Parliament (EP) in Brussels will vote on proposed 
legislation to install software patents (pretty much following the example 
of the US, setting out to override existing patentability laws in force 
around Europe). Activists around Europe and their friends across the 
planet decided to do something about it. In a display of what could happen 
if some of the patents on copying and pasting, hyperlinks and whatnot were 
actually enforced, some major websites, mostly those of Open Source 
software developers, closed shop for a day or more, hoping that their 
protest will have an impact on the outcome of Monday's decisive meeting of 
the EP plenary. Many Gentooists have actively supported last week's 
happenings around Europe, the Gentoo website sported a brief editorial 
note encouraging "our European friends to make up their minds". For 
further information on the background of the debate, last week's events 
and the outcome of the vote, check the FFII website[22], the pivotal 
information hub of the anti-patent movement.

 22. http://swpat.ffii.org
   
================
7. Portage Watch
================
  
The following stable packages were updated or added to portage in the last 
two weeks:
----------
  
 * app-arch/file-roller: archive manager for GNOME[23] 
 * app-cdr/cdlabelgen: CD cover, tray card and envelope generator[24] 
 * app-crypt/gnupg: The GNU Privacy Guard, a GPL pgp replacement[25] 
 * app-doc/abs-guide: An advanced reference and a tutorial on bash shell 
scripting.[26] 
 * app-doc/howto-text: The LDP howtos, text format.[27] 
 * app-editors/gedit: A text editor for the Gnome2 desktop[28] 
 * app-editors/ne: ne is the nice editor, easy to use for the beginner and 
powerful for the wizard[29] 
 * app-editors/vim: Vi IMproved![30] 
 * app-emacs/mew: great MIME mail reader for Emacs/XEmacs[31] 
 * app-emacs/riece: Riece is a redisgn of Liece IRC client[32] 
 * app-emacs/wl: a mail/news reader supporting IMAP4rev1 for emacsen[33] 
 * app-emulation/epsxe: ePSXe Playstation Emulator[34] 
 * app-emulation/uae: An amiga emulator[35] 
 * app-emulation/wine: free implementation of Windows(tm) on Unix - CVS 
snapshot[36] 
 * app-emulation/xmame: Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator for X11[37] 
 * app-emulation/xmess: Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator for X11[38] 
 * app-games/americas-army: America's Army: Operations - military 
simulations by the U.S. Army to provide civilians with insights on 
soldiering[39] 
 * app-games/armagetron: armagetron: 3d tron lightcycles, just like the 
movie[40] 
 * app-games/asc: turn based strategy game designed in the tradition of 
the Battle Isle series[41] 
 * app-games/atlas: Chart Program to use with Flightgear Flight 
Simulator[42] 
 * app-games/attal: turn-based strategy game project[43] 
 * app-games/duke3d: port of the original DukeNukem 3D[44] 
 * app-games/excido: A fast paced action game[45] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod: The notorious fortune program[46] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-bofh-excuses: Excuses from Bastard Operator from 
Hell[47] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-calvin: Quotes from Calvin and Hobbes Comic 
Books[48] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-dubya: Quotes from George W. Bush[49] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-futurama: Quotes from the TV-Series 
-Futurama-[50] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-gentoo-dev: Fortune database of #gentoo-dev 
quotes[51] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-hitchhiker: Quotes from Hitchhikers Guide to the 
Galaxy[52] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-homer: Quotes from Homer Simpson[53] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-humorixfortunes: Extra fortune cookies for 
fortune[54] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-kernelcookies: A collection of funny lines from 
the Linux kernel[55] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-osfortune: Open sources fortune file[56] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-simpsons-chalkboard: Quotes from Bart Simpson's 
Chalkboard, shown at the opening of each Simpsons episode[57] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-smac: Quotes from the Alpha Centauri: Alien 
Crossfire tech tree[58] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-sp-fortunes: South Park Fortunes[59] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-starwars: Quotes from StarWars, The Empire 
Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi[60] 
 * app-games/fortune-mod-tao: set of fortunes based on the 
Tao-Teh-Ching[61] 
 * app-games/greedy: fun little ncurses puzzle game[62] 
 * app-games/gtetrinet: Tetrinet Clone for GNOME 2[63] 
 * app-games/mirrormagic: a game like Deflektor (C 64) or Mindbender 
(Amiga)[64] 
 * app-games/monopd: server for atlantik games[65] 
 * app-games/nwn: Never Winter Nights[66] 
 * app-games/rocksndiamonds: A Boulderdash clone[67] 
 * app-games/sirius: A program for playing the game of othello[68] 
 * app-games/spacehulk: A boardgame in the world of Warhammer 40k[69] 
 * app-games/torcs: The Open Racing Car Simulator[70] 
 * app-games/unreal-tournament: Futuristic FPS[71] 
 * app-games/ut2003: Unreal Tournament 2003 - Sequel to the 1999 Game of 
the Year multi-player first-person shooter[72] 
 * app-games/wakkabox: A simple block-pushing game[73] 
 * app-games/xgalaga: Galaga game clone.[74] 
 * app-i18n/freewnn: Network-Extensible Kana-to-Kanji Conversion 
System[75] 
 * app-i18n/kinput2: A Japanese input server which supports the XIM 
protocol[76] 
 * app-i18n/scim: Smart Common Input Method (SCIM) is a Input Method (IM) 
development platform[77] 
 * app-i18n/scim-chinese: Smart Common Input Method (SCIM) Closed Source 
Pinyin Input Method[78] 
 * app-i18n/skk-jisyo-extra: Extra SKK dictionaries in plain text and cdb 
format[79] 
 * app-i18n/uim: UIM is a simple, secure and flexible input method 
library[80] 
 * app-misc/kdirstat: KDirStat - nice KDE replacement to du command[81] 
 * app-misc/magicpoint: an X11 based presentation tool[82] 
 * app-misc/welcome2l:  Welcome to Linux, ANSI login logo for Linux[83] 
 * app-misc/xosview: X11 operating system viewer[84] 
 * app-office/mdbtools: A set of libraries and utilities for reading 
Microsoft Access database (MDB) files[85] 
 * app-office/scribus: Desktop Publishing (DTP) and Layout program for 
Linux.[86] 
 * app-sci/bioperl: collection of tools for bioinformatics, genomics and 
life science research[87] 
 * app-sci/ksimus: KSimus is a KDE tool for simulation, automatization and 
visualization of technical processes.[88] 
 * app-sci/octave: GNU Octave is a high-level language (MatLab compatible) 
intended for numerical computations[89] 
 * app-sci/octave-forge: A collection of custom scripts, functions and 
extensions for GNU Octave[90] 
 * app-text/epstool: Creates or extracts preview images in EPS files, 
fixes bounding boxes,converts to bitmaps.[91] 
 * app-text/htmldoc: Convert HTML pages into a PDF document[92] 
 * app-text/tkinfo: Info Browser in TK[93] 
 * app-text/uudeview: uu, xx, base64, binhex decoder[94] 
 * dev-cpp/gtkmm: C++ interface for GTK+2[95] 
 * dev-db/mysql: A fast, multi-threaded, multi-user SQL database 
server[96] 
 * dev-db/tora: TOra - Toolkit For Oracle[97] 
 * dev-dotnet/mono: Mono runtime and class librarier, a C# 
compiler/interpreter[98] 
 * dev-dotnet/pnet: Portable .NET runtime, compiler, tools[99] 
 * dev-games/crystalspace: portable 3D Game Development Kit written in 
C++[100] 
 * dev-games/crystalspace-cvs: portable 3D Game Development Kit written in 
C++[101] 
 * dev-java/infobus: InfoBus enables dynamic exchange of data between 
JavaBeans component architecture.[102] 
 * dev-java/jad: Jad - the fast JAva Decompiler[103] 
 * dev-java/jaf: Sun's JavaBeans Activation Framework (JAF)[104] 
 * dev-java/java-config: Utility to change the Java Virtual Machine being 
used[105] 
 * dev-java/java-sdk-docs: Javadoc for Java SDK version 1.3.1[106] 
 * dev-java/javamail: A Java-based framework to build multiplatform mail 
and messaging applications.[107] 
 * dev-java/jdbc2-oracle: JDBC Drivers for Oracle[108] 
 * dev-java/jdbc3-oracle: JDBC 3.0 Drivers for Oracle[109] 
 * dev-java/jmf: The Java Media Framework API (JMF) enables audio, video 
and other time-based media to be added to Java applications and 
applets.[110] 
 * dev-java/jrockit: BEA WebLogic's J2SE Development Kit, version 8.1[111] 
 * dev-java/jython: Java Python implementation[112] 
 * dev-java/sun-jdk: Sun's J2SE Development Kit, version 1.4.2[113] 
 * dev-lang/tolua: a tool that simplifies the integration of C/C++ code 
with Lua[114] 
 * dev-libs/atk: Gnome Accessibility Toolkit[115] 
 * dev-libs/boost: Boost provides free peer-reviewed portable C++ source 
libraries.[116] 
 * dev-libs/elfutils: Libraries and utilities to handle compiled 
objects.[117] 
 * dev-libs/hdf5: HDF5 is a general purpose library and file format for 
storing scientific data.[118] 
 * dev-libs/libxslt: XSLT libraries and tools[119] 
 * dev-libs/qsa: QSA[120] 
 * dev-perl/DB_File: A Berkeley DB Support Perl Module[121] 
 * dev-perl/Net-SNMP: A SNMP Perl Module[122] 
 * dev-php/mod_php: Apache module for PHP 
 * dev-python/4Suite: Python tools for XML processing and 
object-databases.[123] 
 * dev-python/gnome-python: gnome-python[124] 
 * dev-python/pygtk: GTK+2 bindings for Python[125] 
 * dev-python/pykde: set of Python bindings for the KDE libs[126] 
 * dev-python/pyorbit: ORBit2 bindings for Python[127] 
 * dev-python/pyxml: A collection of libraries to process XML with 
Python.[128] 
 * dev-util/guile: Scheme interpreter[129] 
 * gnome-base/ORBit2: ORBit2 is a high-performance CORBA ORB[130] 
 * gnome-base/bonobo-activation: Gnome2 replacement for OAF[131] 
 * gnome-base/gconf: Gnome Configuration System and Daemon[132] 
 * gnome-base/gdm: GNOME2 Display Manager[133] 
 * gnome-base/gnome: Meta package for the GNOME desktop.[134] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-applets: Applets for the Gnome2 Desktop and Panel[135] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-desktop: Libraries for the gnome desktop that is not 
part of the UI[136] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-mime-data: MIME database for Gnome[137] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-panel: The Panel for Gnome2[138] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-session: the Gnome2 session manager[139] 
 * gnome-base/gnome-vfs: Gnome Virtual Filesystem[140] 
 * gnome-base/libbonobo: The GNOME CORBA framework[141] 
 * gnome-base/libbonoboui: User Interface part of Lib bonobo[142] 
 * gnome-base/libglade: GLADE is a interface builder[143] 
 * gnome-base/libgnome: Essential Gnome Libraries[144] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomecanvas: the Gnome 2 Canvas library[145] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeprint: Printer handling for Gnome[146] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeprintui: user interface libraries for gnome 
print[147] 
 * gnome-base/libgnomeui: User interface part of libgnome[148] 
 * gnome-base/libgtop: library that proivdes top functionality to 
applications[149]  
 * gnome-base/librsvg: rendering svg library[150] 
 * gnome-base/nautilus: A filemanager for the Gnome2 desktop[151] 
 * gnome-extra/acme: GNOME tool to make use of the multimedia buttons 
present on most laptops and internet keyboards.[152] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-games: Games for the GNOME desktop[153] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-media: Multimedia related programs for the Gnome2 
desktop[154] 
 * gnome-extra/gnome-system-monitor: Gnome System Monitor[155] 
 * gnome-extra/yelp: Help browser for Gnome2[156] 
 * kde-base/kdeadmin: KDE administration tools (user manager, etc.) 
 * media-fonts/artwiz-fonts: Artwiz Fonts[157] 
 * media-fonts/kochi-substitute: Kochi Japanese TrueType fonts with 
Wadalab Fonts[158] einfo "${HOMEPAGE} for details." 
 * media-fonts/mikachan-font: Mikachan Japanese TrueType fonts[159] 
 * media-fonts/mplus-fonts: mplus Japanese BDF FONTS[160] 
 * media-fonts/shinonome: Japanese bitmap fonts for X[161] 
 * media-gfx/eog: the Eye Of Gnome - Image Viewer and Cataloger for 
Gnome2[162] 
 * media-gfx/gliv: An image viewer that uses OpenGL[163] 
 * media-gfx/gnuplot: Quick and useful plotting program[164] 
 * media-gfx/gphoto2: free, redistributable digital camera software 
application[165] 
 * media-gfx/qiv: Quick Image Viewer[166] 
 * media-gfx/sane-frontends: Scanner Access Now Easy[167] 
 * media-libs/fontconfig: A library for configuring and customizing font 
access.[168] 
 * media-libs/gst-plugins: Additional plugins for gstreamer - streaming 
media framework[169] 
 * media-libs/gstreamer: Streaming media framework[170] 
 * media-libs/imlib2: Version 2 of an advanced replacement library for 
libraries like libXpm[171] 
 * media-libs/libemf: Library implementation of ECMA-234 API for the 
generation of enhanced metafiles.[172] 
 * media-libs/netpbm: A set of utilities for converting to/from the netpbm 
(and related) formats[173] 
 * media-libs/xine-lib: Core libraries for Xine movie player[174] 
 * media-plugins/xmms-crossfade: XMMS Plugin for crossfading, and 
continuous output.[175] 
 * media-sound/freqtweak: tool for FFT-based realtime audio spectral 
manipulation and display[176] 
 * media-sound/gnomeradio: A GNOME2 radio tuner[177] 
 * media-sound/streamripper: Extracts and records individual MP3 file 
tracks from shoutcast streams[178] 
 * media-tv/nxtvepg: receive and browse free TV programme listings via 
bttv for tv networks in Europe[179] 
 * media-video/cinelerra: Cinelerra - Professional Video Editor[180] 
 * media-video/mjpegtools: Tools for MJPEG video[181] 
 * media-video/mplayer: Media Player for Linux[182] 
 * media-video/transcode: video stream processing tool[183] 
 * media-video/xvattr: X11 XVideo Querying/Setting Tool from Ogle 
project[184] 
 * net-analyzer/libnasl: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(libnasl)[185] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus: A remote security scanner for Linux[186] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus-core: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(nessus-core)[187] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus-libraries: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(nessus-libraries)[188] 
 * net-analyzer/nessus-plugins: A remote security scanner for Linux 
(nessus-plugins)[189] 
 * net-analyzer/nmap: utility for network exploration or security 
auditing[190] 
 * net-analyzer/snort: Libpcap-based packet sniffer/logger/lightweight 
IDS[191] 
 * net-dialup/capi4k-utils: Capi4Linux Utils[192] 
 * net-dialup/pptpclient: Linux client for PPTP[193] 
 * net-firewall/shorewall: Full state iptables firewall[194] 
 * net-fs/ftpfs: A filesystem for mounting FTP volumes[195] 
 * net-im/centericq: A ncurses ICQ/Yahoo!/MSN/IRC/Jabber Client[196] 
 * net-im/imcom: Python commandline Jabber Client[197] 
 * net-im/licq: ICQ Client with v8 support[198]  
 * net-im/msnlib: A Python MSN messenger protocol library and client[199] 
 * net-libs/linc: A library to ease the writing of networked 
applications[200] 
 * net-mail/evolution: A GNOME groupware application, a Microsoft Outlook 
workalike[201] 
 * net-mail/f-prot: Frisk Software's f-prot virus scanner[202] 
 * net-mail/queue-fix: Qmail Queue Repair Application with support for 
big-todo[203] 
 * net-misc/atftp: Advanced TFTP implementation client/server[204] 
 * net-misc/gyach: GTK+-based Yahoo! chat client[205] 
 * net-misc/ltsp-core: LTSP - Linux Terminal Server Project[206] 
 * net-misc/pxes: PXES is a package for building thin clients using 
multiple types of clients 
 * net-misc/rsync: File transfer program to keep remote files into 
sync[207] 
 * net-misc/telnet-bsd: Telnet and telnetd ported from OpenBSD with IPv6 
support[208] 
 * net-misc/tftp-hpa: port of the OpenBSD TFTP server[209] 
 * net-misc/whois: improved Whois Client[210] 
 * net-p2p/gnunet: GNUnet is an anonymous, distributed, reputation based 
network.[211] 
 * net-p2p/xmule: wxWindows based client for the eDonkey/eMule/lMule 
network[212] 
 * net-www/apache: The Apache Web Server[213] 
 * net-www/mozilla-firebird: The Mozilla Firebird Web Browser[214] 
 * net-www/opera: Opera web browser.[215] 
 * net-www/straw: rss news aggregator[216] 
 * sys-apps/checkpolicy: SELinux policy compiler[217] 
 * sys-apps/cloop: Compressed filesystem loopback kernel module[218] 
 * sys-apps/coreutils: Standard GNU file utilities (chmod, cp, dd, dir, 
ls...), text utilities (sort, tr, head, wc..), and shell utilities 
(whoami, who,...)[219] 
 * sys-apps/dd_rescue: similar to dd but can copy from source with 
errors[220] 
 * sys-apps/debianutils: A selection of tools from Debian[221] 
 * sys-apps/hdparm: Utility to change hard drive performance 
parameters[222] 
 * sys-apps/policycoreutils: SELinux core utilites[223] 
 * sys-apps/portage: Portage ports system[224] 
 * sys-apps/smartmontools: control and monitor storage systems using the 
Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology System 
(S.M.A.R.T.)[225] 
 * sys-apps/xinetd: Xinetd is a powerful replacement for inetd, with 
advanced features[226] 
 * sys-apps/xmbmon: Mother Board Monitor Program for X Window System[227] 
 * sys-cluster/cppvm: CPPVM: A C++ Interface to PVM[228] 
 * sys-cluster/pvm: PVM: Parallel Virtual Machine[229] 
 * sys-devel/binutils: Tools necessary to build programs[230] 
 * sys-devel/distcc: a program to distribute compilation of C code across 
several machines on a network[231] 
 * sys-devel/gcc: The GNU Compiler Collection. Includes C/C++ and java 
compilers[232] 
 * sys-devel/hardened-gcc: transparent gcc compiler change for PaX/etdyn 
ASLR w/ propolice/SSP[233] 
 * sys-devel/prelink: Modifies executables so runtime libraries load 
faster[234] 
 * sys-kernel/mips-headers:  Linux-Mips CVS headers for MIPS-based 
machines[235] 
 * sys-kernel/mm-sources: Full sources for the development linux kernel 
with Andrew Morton's patchset 
 * sys-kernel/vanilla-sources: Full sources for the Gentoo Linux 
kernel[236] 
 * x11-base/xfree: Xfree86: famous and free X server[237] 
 * x11-libs/gtk+: Gimp ToolKit +[238] 
 * x11-libs/libwnck: A window navigation construction kit[239] 
 * x11-libs/pango: Text rendering and Layout library[240] 
 * x11-libs/qt: QT[241] 
 * x11-misc/icebgset: IceWM background editor[242] 
 * x11-misc/icets: IceWM Theme Editor[243] 
 * x11-misc/icewm-tools: Convenience package for IceWM control center and 
tools[244] 
 * x11-misc/shared-mime-info: The Shared MIME-info Database 
specification.[245] 
 * x11-misc/superkaramba: A version of Karamba with extra extensions 
in-built[246] 
 * x11-misc/x2vnc: Control a remote computer running VNC from X[247] 
 * x11-misc/xnview: XnView image viewer/converter[248] 
 * x11-plugins/wmclockmon: digital clock dockapp with three different 
styles.[249] 
 * x11-terms/gnome-terminal: The Gnome Terminal[250] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme: Gnome2 default icon themes[251] 
 * x11-themes/gnome-themes: A set of gnome2 themes, with sets for users 
with limited or low vision[252] 
 * x11-themes/gtk-engines: Theme Engines from GNOME including Pixmap, 
Metal, Raleigh, Redmond95, Raleigh and Notif 
 * x11-themes/mandrake-artwork: Mandrake's Galaxy theme for GTK1, GTK2, 
Metacity and KDE[253] 
 * x11-themes/thinkeramik: A cool kde style modified from keramik[254] 
 * x11-wm/fluxspace: Enhancements for workspace management within 
Fluxbox.[255] 
 * x11-wm/metacity: Small gtk2 WindowManager[256] 
 23. http://fileroller.sourceforge.net/
 24. http://www.aczone.com/tools/cdinsert
 25. http://www.gnupg.org/
 26. http://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html
 27. http://www.linuxdoc.org
 28. http://www.gnome.org/
 29. http://ne.dsi.unimi.it/
 30. http://www.vim.org
 31. http://www.mew.org/
 32. http://wiliki.designflaw.org/riece.cgi
 33. http://www.gohome.org/wl/index.html
 34. http://www.epsxe.com/
 35. http://www.freiburg.linux.de/~uae/
 36. http://www.winehq.com/
 37. http://x.mame.net/
 38. http://x.mame.net/
 39. http://www.americasarmy.com/
 40. http://armagetron.sourceforge.net/
 41. http://www.asc-hq.org/
 42. http://atlas.sourceforge.net/
 43. http://www.attal-thegame.org/
 44. http://icculus.org/projects/duke3d/
 45. http://icculus.org/excido/
 46. ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/games/amusements/fortune/
 47. http://www.stlim.net/staticpages/index.php?page=20020814005536450
 48. http://www.netmeister.org/misc.html
 49. http://dubya.seiler.us
 50. http://www.netmeister.org/misc.html
 51. http://oppresses.us/~avenj/index.html
 52. http://www.splitbrain.org/index.php?x=.%2FFortunes%2Fhitchhiker
 53. http://www.cs.indiana.edu/~crcarter/homer/homer.html
 54. http://i-want-a-website.com/about-linux/downloads.shtml
 55. http://unattached.i-no.de/software-misc.shtml
 56. http://www.dibona.com/opensources/index.shtml
 57. http://www.splitbrain.org/index.php?x=.%2FFortunes%2Fsimpsons
 58. http://homepages.ihug.com.au/~alana/
 59. http://eol.init1.nl/pub/linux/index.php
 60. http://www.splitbrain.org/index.php?x=.%2FFortunes%2Fstarwars
 61. http://aboleo.net/software/
 62. http://www.kotinet.com/juhamattin/linux/index.html
 63. http://gtetrinet.sourceforge.net/
 64. http://www.artsoft.org/mirrormagic/
 65. http://unixcode.org/monopd/
 66. http://nwn.bioware.com/downloads/linuxclient.html
 67. http://www.artsoft.org/rocksndiamonds/
 68. http://sirius.bitvis.nu/
 69. http://perso.enst.fr/~vinot/spacehulk/
 70. http://torcs.org/
 71. http://www.unrealtournament.com/
 72. http://www.unrealtournament2003.com/
 73. http://kenn.frap.net/wakkabox/
 74. http://rumsey.org/xgal.html
 75. http://www.freewnn.org/
 76. http://www.nec.co.jp/canna/
 77. http://www.turbolinux.com.cn/~suzhe/scim/
 78. http://www.turbolinux.com.cn/~suzhe/scim/
 79. http://openlab.ring.gr.jp/skk/dic.html
 80. http://anthy.sourceforge.jp/
 81. http://kdirstat.sourceforge.net/
 82. http://www.mew.org/mgp/
 83. http://www.littleigloo.org/
 84. http://xosview.sourceforge.net
 85. http://sourceforge.net/projects/mdbtools/
 86. http://web2.altmuehlnet.de/fschmid/
 87. http://www.bioperl.org/
 88. http://ksimus.berlios.de/
 89. http://www.octave.org/
 90. http://octave.sourceforge.net/
 91. http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/gsview/epstool.htm
 92. http://www.easysw.com/htmldoc/
 93. http://math-www.uni-paderborn.de/~axel/tkinfo/
 94. http://www.fpx.de/fp/Software/UUDeview/
 95. http://gtkmm.sourceforge.net/
 96. http://www.mysql.com/
 97. http://www.globecom.se/tora/
 98. http://www.go-mono.com/
 99. http://www.dotgnu.org/
 100. http://crystal.sourceforge.net/
 101. http://crystal.sourceforge.net/
 102. http://java.sun.com/products/javabeans/infobus/index.html
 103. http://kpdus.tripod.com/jad.html
 104. http://java.sun.com/products/javabeans/glasgow/jaf.html
 105. http://www.gentoo.org/
 106. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.3/docs.html
 107. http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/index.html
 108. 
http://otn.oracle.com/software/tech/java/sqlj_jdbc/htdocs/jdbc817.html
 109. 
http://otn.oracle.com/software/tech/java/sqlj_jdbc/htdocs/jdbc9201.html
 110. http://java.sun.com/products/java-media/jmf/
 111. http://commerce.bea.com/downloads/weblogic_jrockit.jsp
 112. http://www.jython.org
 113. http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/download.html
 114. http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/~celes/tolua/
 115. http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gap/
 116. http://www.boost.org
 117. http://www.redhat.com/
 118. http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/
 119. http://www.xmlsoft.org/
 120. http://www.trolltech.com/
 121. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/DB_File/${P}.readme
 122. http://www.cpan.org/modules/by-module/Net/${P}.readme
 123. http://www.4suite.org/
 124. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/gnome/
 125. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/
 126. http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/pykde/
 127. http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/
 128. http://pyxml.sourceforge.net/
 129. http://www.gnu.org/software/guile/
 130. http://www.gnome.org/
 131. http://www.gnome.org/
 132. http://www.gnome.org/
 133. http://www.gnome.org/
 134. http://www.gnome.org/
 135. http://www.gnome.org/
 136. http://www.gnome.org/
 137. http://www.gnome.org/
 138. http://www.gnome.org/
 139. http://www.gnome.org/
 140. http://www.gnome.org/
 141. http://www.gnome.org/
 142. http://www.gnome.org/
 143. http://www.gnome.org/
 144. http://www.gnome.org/
 145. http://www.gnome.org/
 146. http://www.gnome.org/
 147. http://www.gnome.org/
 148. http://www.gnome.org/
 149. http://www.gnome.org/
 150. http://www.gnome.org/
 151. http://www.gnome.org/projects/nautilus/
 152. http://www.hadess.net/misc-code.php3
 153. http://www.gnome.org/
 154. http://www.prettypeople.org/~iain/gnome-media/
 155. http://www.gnome.org/
 156. http://www.gnome.org/
 157. http://fluxbox.sourceforge.net/docs/artwiz-fonts.php
 158. http://efont.sourceforge.jp/
 159. http://mikachan-font.com/
 160. http://mplus-fonts.sourceforge.jp/
 161. http://openlab.jp/efont/shinonome/
 162. http://www.gnome.org/
 163. http://gliv.tuxfamily.org
 164. http://www.gnuplot.info
 165. http://www.gphoto.org/
 166. http://www.klografx.net/qiv/
 167. http://www.mostang.com/sane/
 168. http://fontconfig.org/
 169. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 170. http://gstreamer.sourceforge.net
 171. http://www.enlightenment.org/pages/imlib2.html
 172. http://libemf.sourceforge.net/
 173. http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/
 174. http://xine.sourceforge.net/
 175. http://www.netcologne.de/~nc-eisenlpe2/xmms-crossfade/
 176. http://freqtweak.sourceforge.net
 177. http://mfcn.ilo.de/gnomeradio/
 178. http://streamripper.sourceforge.net/
 179. http://nxtvepg.sourceforge.net/
 180. http://heroinewarrior.com/cinelerra.php3
 181. http://mjpeg.sourceforge.net/
 182. http://www.mplayerhq.hu/
 183. http://zebra.fh-weingarten.de/~transcode/
 184. http://www.dtek.chalmers.se/groups/dvd/
 185. http://www.nessus.org/
 186. http://www.nessus.org/
 187. http://www.nessus.org/
 188. http://www.nessus.org/
 189. http://www.nessus.org/
 190. http://www.insecure.org/nmap/
 191. http://www.snort.org/
 192. ftp://ftp.in-berlin.de/pub/capi4linux/
 193. http://pptpclient.sourceforge.net/
 194. http://www.shorewall.net
 195. http://ftpfs.sourceforge.net/
 196. http://konst.org.ua/eng/software/centericq/info.html
 197. http://imcom.floobin.cx
 198. http://www.licq.org/
 199. http://auriga.wearlab.de/~alb/msnlib
 200. http://www.gnome.org/
 201. http://www.ximian.com
 202. http://www.f-prot.com/
 203. http://www.netmeridian.com/e-huss/
 204. ftp://ftp.mamalinux.com/pub/atftp/
 205. http://www4.infi.net/~cpinkham/gyach/
 206. http://www.ltsp.org/
 207. http://rsync.samba.org/
 208. ftp://ftp.suse.com/pub/people/kukuk/ipv6/
 209. http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/network/tftp/
 210. http://www.linux.it/~md/software/
 211. http://www.ovmj.org/GNUnet/
 212. http://www.xmule.org/
 213. http://www.apache.org http://www.modssl.org
 214. http://www.mozilla.org/projects/firebird/
 215. http://www.opera.com/linux/
 216. http://www.nongnu.org/straw/
 217. http://www.nsa.gov/selinux
 218. http://www.knopper.net/knoppix/
 219. http://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/
 220. http://www.garloff.de/kurt/linux/ddrescue/
 221. http://packages.debian.org/unstable/base/debianutils.html
 222. http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/system/hardware/
 223. http://www.nsa.gov/selinux
 224. http://www.gentoo.org
 225. http://smartmontools.sourceforge.net/
 226. http://www.xinetd.org
 227. http://www.nt.phys.kyushu-u.ac.jp/shimizu/download/download.html
 228. http://www.informatik.uni-stuttgart.de/ipvr/bv/cppvm/index.html
 229. http://www.epm.ornl.gov/pvm/pvm_home.html
 230. http://sources.redhat.com/binutils/
 231. http://distcc.samba.org/
 232. http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc/gcc.html
 233. http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/hardened/etdyn-ssp.xml
 234. ftp://people.redhat.com/jakub/prelink
 235. http://www.linux-mips.org/
 236. http://www.kernel.org/
 237. http://www.xfree.org
 238. http://www.gtk.org/
 239. http://www.gnome.org/
 240. http://www.pango.org/
 241. http://www.trolltech.com/
 242. http://icecc.sourceforge.net/
 243. http://icecc.sourceforge.net/
 244. http://icecc.sourceforge.net/
 245. http://www.freedesktop.org
 246. http://netdragon.sourceforge.net/
 247. http://www.hubbe.net/~hubbe/x2vnc.html
 248. http://www.xnview.com/
 249. http://tnemeth.free.fr/projets/dockapps.html
 250. http://www.gnome.org/
 251. http://www.gnome.org/
 252. http://www.gnome.org/softwaremap/projects/gnome-themes
 253. http://www.mandrakelinux.com
 254. http://kde-look.org/content/show.php?content=6986
 255. http://fluxspace.sourceforge.net/
 256. http://www.gnome.org/softwaremap/projects/metacity/
 
Total categories: 96
Total packages: 6417
    
===========
8. Bugzilla
===========
  
Summary
-------
  
 * Statistics 
 * Closed Bug Ranking 
 * New Bug Rankings 
    
Statistics
----------
  
The Gentoo community uses Bugzilla (bugs.gentoo.org[257]) to record and 
track bugs, notifications, suggestions and other interactions with the 
development team. Between 22 August 2003 and 28 August 2003, activity on 
the site has resulted in: 

 257. http://bugs.gentoo.org
 
 * 364 new bugs during this period 
 * 202 bugs closed or resolved during this period 
 * 4 previously closed bugs were reopened this period 
 
Of the 3709 currently open bugs: 88 are labeled 'blocker', 192 are labeled 
'critical', and 277 are labeled 'major'. 
    
Closed Bug Rankings
-------------------
  
The developers and teams who have closed the most bugs during this period 
are: 
 
 * Gentoo KDE team[258], with 19 closed bugs[259]  
 * Gentoo Games[260], with 16 closed bugs[261]  
 * Gentoo Linux Gnome Desktop Team[262], with 12 closed bugs[263]  
 * Perl Devs @ Gentoo[264], with 11 closed bugs[265]  
 * Martin Schlemmer[266], with 8 closed bugs[267]  
 258. kde@gentoo.org
 259. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08-28&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=kde@gentoo.org
 260. games@gentoo.org
 261. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08-28&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=games@gentoo.org
 262. gnome@gentoo.org
 263. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08-28&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org
 264. perl@gentoo.org
 265. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08-28&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=perl@gentoo.org
 266. azarah@gentoo.org
 267. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=RESOLVED&bug_status=CLOSED&ch
field=bug_status&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08-28&resolution=FIX
ED&assigned_to=azarah@gentoo.org

New Bug Rankings
----------------
  
The developers and teams who have been assigned the most new bugs during 
this period are: 
 
 * Gentoo Linux Gnome Desktop Team[268], with 14 new bugs[269]  
 * Gentoo Web Application Packages Maintainers[270], with 12 new bugs[271] 
 
 * Gentoo Sound Team[272], with 12 new bugs[273]  
 * Karl Trygve Kalleberg[274], with 12 new bugs[275]  
 * George Shapovalov[276], with 9 new bugs[277]  
 * Jon Portnoy[278], with 9 new bugs[279]  
 268. gnome@gentoo.org
 269. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08
-28&assigned_to=gnome@gentoo.org
 270. web-apps@gentoo.org
 271. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08
-28&assigned_to=web-apps@gentoo.org
 272. sound@gentoo.org
 273. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08
-28&assigned_to=sound@gentoo.org
 274. karltk@gentoo.org
 275. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08
-28&assigned_to=karltk@gentoo.org
 276. george@gentoo.org
 277. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08
-28&assigned_to=george@gentoo.org
 278. avenj@gentoo.org
 279. 
http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_s
tatus=REOPENED&chfield=assigned_to&chfieldfrom=2003-08-22&chfieldto=2003-08
-28&assigned_to=avenj@gentoo.org

==================
9. Tips and Tricks
==================
  
Editing USE flags with ufed and euse
 
This week's tip introduces two USE flag editors; ufed (an ncurses based 
utility) and euse (a command line utility). Between these two programs the 
days of opening /etc/make.conf and editing USE manually can be over. 
 
While euse is available in Portage, ufed is a separate package and will 
need to be emerged. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.1:                                                       |
| Getting ufed                                                            |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|# emerge app-portage/ufed                                                |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Using ufed is very simple. Make sure you're root and simply type ufed. An 
ncurses based interface to all USE flags should start and you can select 
them as you like. After you're done, just select Save and you're done. 
 
While ufed provides a full menu for editing USE flags, euse is handy when 
you need to quickly add or remove a USE flag. To add a USE flag, use euse 
-E flag. To remove a flag, use euse -D flag. To list your USE flags, use 
euse -i. 
 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Code Listing 9.2:                                                       |
| Using euse                                                              |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                         |
|Example: Adding mozilla as a USE flag                                    |
|# euse -E mozilla                                                        |
|                                                                         |
|Example: Removing mozilla as a USE flag                                  |
|# euse -D mozilla                                                        |
|                                                                         |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
For more information on using these two programs, see man 1 euse and man 8 
ufed. 
   
========================================
10. Featured Quote/Signature of the Week
========================================
  
This week we give you forum moderator ebrostig[280]'s signature, which is 
worth a chuckle even if you've heard it before: 

 280. http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=viewprofile&u=4134
 
"Linux is like living in a teepee. No Windows, no Gates and an Apache in 
house."
   
===========================
11. Moves, Adds and Changes
===========================
  
Moves
-----
  
The following developers recently left the Gentoo team: 
 * none this week 
    
Adds
----
  
The following developers recently joined the Gentoo Linux team:
 
 * none this week 
    
Changes
-------
  
The following developers recently changed roles within the Gentoo Linux 
project.
 
 * none this week 
    
=====================
12. Contribute to GWN
=====================
  
Interested in contributing to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter? Send us an 
email[281].

 281. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================
13. GWN Feedback
================
  
Please send us your feedback[282] and help make GWN better.

 282. gwn-feedback@gentoo.org
   
================================
14. GWN Subscription Information
================================
  
To subscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-subscribe@gentoo.org.
 
To unsubscribe to the Gentoo Weekly Newsletter, send a blank email to 
gentoo-gwn-unsubscribe@gentoo.org from the email address you are 
subscribed under.
   
===================
15. Other Languages
===================
  
The Gentoo Weekly Newsletter is also available in the following languages:
 
 * Dutch[283] 
 * English[284] 
 * German[285] 
 * French[286] 
 * Japanese[287] 
 * Italian[288] 
 * Polish[289] 
 * Portuguese (Brazil)[290] 
 * Portuguese (Portugal)[291] 
 * Russian[292] 
 * Spanish[293] 
 * Turkish[294] 
 283. http://www.gentoo.org/news/be/gwn/gwn.xml
 284. http://www.gentoo.org/news/en/gwn/gwn.xml
 285. http://www.gentoo.org/news/de/gwn/gwn.xml
 286. http://www.gentoo.org/news/fr/gwn/gwn.xml
 287. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ja/gwn/gwn.xml
 288. http://www.gentoo.org/news/it/gwn/gwn.xml
 289. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pl/gwn/gwn.xml
 290. http://www.gentoo.org/news/br/gwn/gwn.xml
 291. http://www.gentoo.org/news/pt/gwn/gwn.xml
 292. http://www.gentoo.org/news/ru/gwn/gwn.xml
 293. http://www.gentoo.org/news/es/gwn/gwn.xml
 294. http://www.gentoo.org/news/tr/gwn/gwn.xml

Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Editor
AJ Armstrong <aja@clanarmstrong.com> - Contributor
Brian Downey <bdowney@briandowney.net> - Contributor
Cal Evans <cal@calevans.com> - Contributor
Chris Gavin <gubbs@fudo.org> - Contributor
Luke Giuliani <cold_flame@email.com> - Contributor
Shawn Jonnet <shawn.jonnet@verizon.net> - Contributor
Michael Kohl <citizen428@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Kurt Lieber <klieber@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Rafael Cordones Marcos <rcm@sasaska.net> - Contributor
David Narayan <david@phrixus.net> - Contributor
Gerald J Normandin Jr. <gerrynjr@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Ulrich Plate <plate@gentoo.org> - Contributor
Mathy Vanvoorden <matje@lanzone.be> - Dutch Translation
Hendrik Eeckhaut <Hendrik.Eeckhaut@UGent.be> - Dutch Translation
Jorn Eilander <sephiroth@quicknet.nl> - Dutch Translation
Bernard Kerckenaere <bernieke@bernieke.com> - Dutch Translation
Peter ter Borg <peter@daborg.nl> - Dutch Translation
Jochen Maes <linux@sejo.be> - Dutch Translation
Roderick Goessen <rgoessen@home.nl> - Dutch Translation
Gerard van den Berg <gerard@steelo.net> - Dutch Translation
Matthieu Montaudouin <mat@frheaven.com> - French Translation
Martin Prieto <riverdale@linuxmail.org> - French Translation
Antoine Raillon <cabec2@pegase.net> - French Translation
Sebastien Cevey <seb@cine7.net> - French Translation
Jean-Christophe Choisy <mabouya@petitefleure.org> - French Translation
Steffen Lassahn <madeagle@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Matthias F. Brandstetter <haim@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Thomas Raschbacher <lordvan@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Klaus-J. Wolf <yanestra@gentoo.org> - German Translation
Marco Mascherpa <mush@monrif.net> - Italian Translation
Claudio Merloni <paper@tiscali.it> - Italian Translation
Christian Apolloni <bsolar@bluewin.ch> - Italian Translation
Stefano Lucidi <stefano.lucidi@gentoo-italia.org> - Italian Translation
Yoshiaki Hagihara <hagi@p1d.com> - Japanese Translation
Katsuyuki Konno <katuyuki@siva.ddo.jp> - Japanese Translation
Yuji Carlos Kosugi <carlos@gentoo.org> - Japanese Translation
Yasunori Fukudome <yasunori@mail.portland.co.uk> - Japanese Translation
Takashi Ota <088@t.email.ne.jp> - Japanese Translation
Radoslaw Janeczko <sototh@gts.pl> - Polish Translation
Lukasz Strzygowski <lucass.home@pf.pl> - Polish Translation
Michal Drobek <veng@wp.pl> - Polish Translation
Adam Lyjak <apo@cyberpunk.net.pulawy.pl> - Polish Translation
Krzysztof Klimonda <cthulhu@emusearch.net> - Polish Translation
Atila "Jedi" Bohlke Vasconcelos <bohlke@inf.ufrgs.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Eduardo Belloti <dudu@datavibe.net> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
João Rafael Moraes Nicola <joaoraf@rudah.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Marcelo Gonçalves de Azambuja <mgazambuja@terra.com.br> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Otavio Rodolfo Piske <angusy@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Pablo N. Hess -- NatuNobilis <natunobilis@gentoobr.org> - Portuguese 
(Brazil) Translation
Pedro de Medeiros <pzilla@yawl.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) Translation
Ventura Barbeiro <venturasbarbeiro@ig.com.br> - Portuguese (Brazil) 
Translation
Bruno Ferreira <blueroom@digitalmente.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
Gustavo Felisberto <humpback@felisberto.net> - Portuguese (Portugal) 
Translation
José Costa <jose_costa@netcabo.pt> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Luis Medina <metalgodin@linuxmail.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Ricardo Loureiro <rjlouro@rjlouro.org> - Portuguese (Portugal) Translation
Sergey Galkin <gals_home@list.ru> - Russian Translator
Sergey Kuleshov <svyatogor@gentoo.org> - Russian Translator
Alex Spirin <asp13@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Dmitry Suzdalev <dimsuz@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Anton Vorovatov <mazurous@mail.ru> - Russian Translator
Denis Zaletov <dzaletov@rambler.ru> - Russian Translator
Lanark <lanark@lanark.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Fernando J. Pereda <ferdy@ferdyx.org> - Spanish Translation
Lluis Peinado Cifuentes <lpeinado@uoc.edu> - Spanish Translation
Zephryn Xirdal T <ZEPHRYNXIRDAL@telefonica.net> - Spanish Translation
Guillermo Juarez <katossi@usuarios.retecal.es> - Spanish Translation
Jesús García Crespo <correo@sevein.com> - Spanish Translation
Carlos Castillo <carlos@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Julio Castillo <julio@castillobueno.com> - Spanish Translation
Sergio Gómez <s3r@fibertel.com.ar> - Spanish Translation
Aycan Irican <aycan@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Bugra Cakir <bugra@myrealbox.com> - Turkish Translation
Cagil Seker <cagils@biznet.com.tr> - Turkish Translation
Emre Kazdagli <emre@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Evrim Ulu <evrim@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
Gursel Kaynak <gurcell@core.gen.tr> - Turkish Translation
