The Installer Team is happy to announce the 0.4 release of the Gentoo Linux
Installer.  There are two major new features in this release and a number of 
smaller changes.  

The biggest change is an overhaul of the partitioning code.  The installer will
now be more gentle to people's drives and not recreate the partition map unless
it must.  Also, it will now abort an install _before_ partitioning if an 
unsupported layout or unknown filesystem is found.  Note that unformatted 
partitions are currently considered "unknown" by the installer for safety 
reasons; please format them beforehand.  

The second big change is the addition of a "Networkless" mode in the frontends.
Selecting a networkless install pre-selects many options and disables other 
options.  This is in an effort to avoid letting users easily create 
configurations that will break the installation.  Because of a lack of an 
Internet connection, the installer limits the packages and versions available 
to emerge.

There have been a few other changes, mostly bug fixes, but the same general 
rules still apply.  The installer is designed to be as flexible as possible, so
despite our efforts to make it robust, if you really try to break it, you will
likely succeed.

We appologize that we have not been able to provide more features this release;
the lead developers have been pre-occupied with making the 2006.1 release and
getting the Scire project off the ground.  Not to worry though!  We still have
a lot of things planned for the installer.  Goals for the 2007.0 release 
include working internationalization in the frontends, improved partitioning 
with possibly LVM support, an overhaul of some of the GTK frontend screens, 
and support for ppc and Alpha architectures.

As always, if you find a bug in the installer, please first READ THE FAQ, and 
if it is not a known issue or fixed in CVS, please file a bug using bugzilla.
