Manifest
========

Jun 16, 23:25

Since the voting period started, I’d like to give people a bit of information
why they should vote for me and those who already consider it an impression of
what my plans would be.

The past election period
------------------------

One of my first proposals was to have a Secretary. Initially I advocated a
rotating scheme where every council gets the Secretary job once in a while but
since tanderson was kind enough to volunteer we got a “full-time” Secretary who
made sure that the summary is available a couple of days after the meeting and
who also made sure that decisions where clearly phrased (like the deprecation
of eclasses).

From the technical side EAPI-3 was probably the biggest topic I worked on.
Thanks to a lot of help from others we finally managed to get the
specifications done and are now waiting for the implementation.

Some are surely disappointed that features they advocated for or proposed
didn’t get included. The reason is that a line has to be drawn at some point
and since we don’t have an EAPI development process the “feature freeze” might
have come suddenly for some. Which brings me directly to the plans I have,
should the developers trust me once more:

What I would do in the next election period
-------------------------------------------

First I’d push forward the development of an EAPI development process to make
the development more transparent. And guessing from the amount of mails
concerning new features we shouldn’t wait too long for a new EAPI-4 as well.

From the organizational side I’d like to continue my work on the
re-organization GLEP Calchan and I are working on since I believe that a better
structure also leads to more fun in development.

In short terms
--------------

Vote for me if you want someone who knows how to organize meetings, how to push
technical and organizational innovations and actively shapes the future of
Gentoo.

— Tiziano Müller
