:Author:  Thomas Anderson (irc: tanderson, ballot: gentoofan23)
:Contact: gentoofan23@gentoo.org
:Date:    04 Jun 2009

'Thank You's
============

I first would like to thank the general developer community for the overall
positive experience I've had over the past three years working with Gentoo. I'd
also like to thank the outgoing council for the mentorship and trust they've
given me, I've learned quite a bit from them.

Qualifications / Who am I?
==========================

I've been involved with the Gentoo community for 3 years now. I was an active
Arch Tester for the AMD64 project for two years, and an official Gentoo
Developer for a year. As a developer I've been involved with the sunrise
project and AMD64. I've also been the secretary to the Gentoo Council for the
past six months. As the secretary, I've become intimately familiar with what
the Council does and have garnered experience that enables me to judge what
Gentoo needs in the coming year. My occupation is a student which I will be for
the next 6 years or more so I'll have plenty of time to devote to the Council.

How I will attack the problem of dissenting opinions
====================================================

This past year, we've had quite a few contrary opinions on various things.
What's compounded the problem of lack of agreement is the lack of positive work
towards an end goal -- instead of working together for a commone desire and
goal we try to show why other people are wrong. What I intend to do is to have
positive discussions towards a goal (How can we change, improve, and refine
proposals to have greater acceptance ). I've been doing this some in the past
and I believe it is the correct way to move forward.

Goals for my term
=================

Apart from what is mentioned above, primary goals are as follows(in no
particular importance):

Make a transition to git for gentoo-x86.
----------------------------------------

We must handle this transition smoothly. We'll need to make sure all
documentation is updated. We may need to appoint people(or do the work
ourselves) for this. We need to actually make use of git's strongest asset to
the Gentoo community -- external contributors. If we can broadcast to our
userbase that being a 'dev' is nothing fancy and that anyone can make commits
which are simply signed off on and pushed. In my opinion, this can strengthen
us and bring the rift between the user community and developer community much
smaller.

Gather insight from the developer community on proposals.
---------------------------------------------------------

I intend to institute a "friend of the council" system where interested
individuals(not necessarily developers) can privately email the council with
their opinions and insight into the problem at hand. The advantage of this is
that council members do not have to wade through 200 -dev emails that have
hostile disputes between multiple factions to determine the technical arguments
in favor and against the proposal at hand. I think this will make it simpler
for council members to know the pros/cons of each. Note that this doesn't mean
that I think that if people in favor of a proposal send in more emails than
those against a proposal I will vote in favor of the proposal, far from it. Nor
would this mean council members do not need to read -dev, dutiful reading of
-dev is a council member's responsibility.

Get the council working more smoothly.
--------------------------------------

Six month discussions with no results are unnacceptable and we need operate on
a goal-oriented basis where we know a problem(first we _must_ agree there's a
problem), possibly a proposed solution and then have various 'blockers' that
need to be solved before accepting the solution and having the problem
eliminated. Part of the council working smoothly is to present our opinions and
discuss blockers on-list before meeting and then voting and any
last-minute(there should be few of these at the meeting however) discussions at
the meeting in a +m(moderated) environment, voicing individuals as desired for
input. This'll avoid the back and forth in meetings that really should happen
on list before meeting.
