.TH "COMPRESS_GCLOOP" "6" "Jun 2004" "gcloop 1.00" "gcloop"
.SH NAME
compress_gcloop \- creates gcloop images [PLACEHOLDER]
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B compress_gcloop [options] infile outfile
.br
.B compress_gcloop -V
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcompress_gcloop\fR can be utilized to create a compressed 
image to be used as compressed loopback.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.BR infile
Input image file, to use stdin instead use "-" instead of a filename
.TP
.BR outfile
Output file
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -b 
Set the blocksize, in bytes. The number has to be a multiple of 512.
The suggested sizes are 65536 (64k) and 131072 (128k). Higher values
are possible, but discouraged.
.TP
.BR -c
Set the compression level, the range is up to the compressor used
commonly 0-10 for ucl algorithm and 0-9 for zlib algorithm.
.TP
.BR -i
Set the input imagesize, in bytes. To be used if cannot be determined
.TP
.BR -I
Force the input imagesize, in bytes.
.TP
.BR -l
Force the use of 64bit integers even if isn't required (for debugging purposes)
.TP
.BR -v
Verboseness level, cumulable. -v just give you a summary, -vv and -vvv
report per block statistics.
.TP
.BR -V
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR -C
\&[not implemented yet]
Set the compression algorithm.
.TP
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.B compress_gcloop
image.iso image.ucl
.br
.B compress_gcloop
-vv -c 9 -b 131072 image.iso image.ucl
.br
mkisofs -r datadir |
.B compress_gcloop
 - image.ucl
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report bugs via http://bugs.gentoo.org/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR create_gcloop (1),
.BR extract_gcloop (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org> (revamped version)
.br
Valentijn Sessink <valentyn@openoffice.nl>  (total rewrite)
.br
Klaus Knopper <knopper@knopper.net>
.br
Paul 'Rusty' Russel (original author)

