RELEASE AND ASSIGNMENT

WORK DESCRIPTION: All source code and any other material that falls
into any of the following categories:
  a) committed by Assignor to an official Gentoo source code repository
  using a version control system such as cvs, subversion or similar 
  software;
  b) submitted to submissions@gentoo.org by Assignor;
  c) submitted to a Gentoo bug tracker by Assignor
  ("Work") 

Formal ownership of gentoo linux by a single entity will enable
necessary steps to be taken to ensure that all distributors of
derivative works will abide by the GNU General Public License and the
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License under which gentoo
linux is distributed.  By accepting this Release and Assignment,
Gentoo Foundation, Inc. ("Gentoo", including its successors and
assignees) agrees that gentoo linux software will never be distributed
under any license agreement materially different from an applicable
version of the GNU General Public License, and that gentoo linux
documentation will never be distributed under any license agreement
materially different from an applicable version of the Creative
Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License.  However, Gentoo reserves the
right to license Gentoo trademarks, including the gentoo logo, and the
Gentoo website look-and-feel under different terms and conditions.

Therefore, and in exchange for recognition at http://www.gentoo.org of
his or her contribution to the source code and/or documentation for
gentoo linux, _____________________ ("Assignor") hereby releases and
assigns to Gentoo all Assignor's copyrights, ownership, and claims for
the following items:

	source code, object code, screen displays, icons,
	documentation, user and developers manuals, authoring,
	editing, sound, photography, graphics, animation, musical
	composition or arrangement, design, artwork, or layout,
	including any advertising, brochures, video, photographs,
	films, or computer media relating to the Work.

Assignor warrants that Assignor's rights in the Work have not been
previously assigned, mortgaged or otherwise encumbered, and Assignor
has full right, power and authority to assign all such rights to
Gentoo.


_______________________	_____________________________
ASSIGNOR NAME           SIGNATURE


_______________________	
DATE
