(02/22/2009 01:08:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: Lets do roll call and see who we have .
(02/22/2009 01:08:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: ?me is here now
(02/22/2009 01:08:31 PM) fmccor: Here
(02/22/2009 01:08:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: :)
(02/22/2009 01:09:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, is "house sitting" as wasn't sure if if could make it.
(02/22/2009 01:09:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: lets start using last weeks agenda - we have a quorum
(02/22/2009 01:09:57 PM) ***NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order
(02/22/2009 01:10:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 1 - we can skip that
(02/22/2009 01:10:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 2 Actions From the Last Meeting
(02/22/2009 01:10:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: Does anyone know about  Gentoo Foundation Banking  ?
(02/22/2009 01:11:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, fmccor ?
(02/22/2009 01:11:09 PM) dmwaters: nope
(02/22/2009 01:11:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, ?
(02/22/2009 01:11:22 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: haven't heard from tsunam
(02/22/2009 01:11:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: re banking
(02/22/2009 01:11:29 PM) fmccor: Last I knew it was still jammed up, and this has to move to critical.
(02/22/2009 01:11:34 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes
(02/22/2009 01:11:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: agreed
(02/22/2009 01:11:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: Moving on ..
(02/22/2009 01:11:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: Certified Public Accountant - quantumsummers
(02/22/2009 01:11:52 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: re: 2.2 I am meeting with the CPA next week to get things rolling. perhaps we can get some advice on the banking front
(02/22/2009 01:12:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I still need financials from tsunam
(02/22/2009 01:12:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, try to speak (voice) with tsunam before then
(02/22/2009 01:12:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have a few, but only half from 2008
(02/22/2009 01:12:37 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair needs his #
(02/22/2009 01:13:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, fmccor has it and it will be in the tarball of trustees@ as we all posted numbers there
(02/22/2009 01:13:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: got it, thanks fmccor
(02/22/2009 01:13:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, thanks
(02/22/2009 01:13:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: next Send friendly cease and desist emails to copyright infringers spotted on cafepress - quantumsummers
(02/22/2009 01:14:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: The template looked good
(02/22/2009 01:14:37 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, I will begin sending to my  list on monday
(02/22/2009 01:14:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I also have a prelim app to track this stuff
(02/22/2009 01:15:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: feel free to add to the list too ... any infringers are fair game
(02/22/2009 01:15:24 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: will do, hence the app. the list in rather long
(02/22/2009 01:15:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, sounds good
(02/22/2009 01:15:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 01:15:32 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: great
(02/22/2009 01:15:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: skip Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June 2008
(02/22/2009 01:16:14 PM) NeddySeagoon: Next is  Foundation Knowledge Management Needs - quantumsummers
(02/22/2009 01:16:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes, still under development
(02/22/2009 01:16:36 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: its coming along quite nicely
(02/22/2009 01:16:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: has a full social networking suite in it now
(02/22/2009 01:16:54 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: accounting is working
(02/22/2009 01:17:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: do you have a target date for 1st deployment ?
(02/22/2009 01:17:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: need to add a receipt filer to that, should be easy
(02/22/2009 01:17:20 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: hmm, not a solid date for overall completion
(02/22/2009 01:17:23 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: however
(02/22/2009 01:17:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can deploy what I have anytime
(02/22/2009 01:18:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: I doubt it will ever be 'complete' but do you have per feature target dates ?
(02/22/2009 01:18:00 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: its a tad ugly, but I'm planning on using the html/css from the web redesign
(02/22/2009 01:18:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: Hmm, is there going to be a web redesign ?
(02/22/2009 01:18:36 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Not at the moment NeddySeagoon, as I am working on it in my spare time
(02/22/2009 01:19:00 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I am unsire about whether the redesign will make it for the main site
(02/22/2009 01:19:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: *unsure
(02/22/2009 01:19:13 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: but I will use it for mow
(02/22/2009 01:19:17 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: now
(02/22/2009 01:19:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: its pretty nice for this particular use case
(02/22/2009 01:19:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok.  but you will deploy features as they become robust enough to use   
(02/22/2009 01:19:39 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: regarding target dates
(02/22/2009 01:20:22 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: perhaps it would be useful for the board to let me know what is most helpful & I can plan deployment based on need
(02/22/2009 01:20:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, you won't get fired for missing dates ... I'm looking for something to provide focus is all.
(02/22/2009 01:21:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I would say that I will have a pretty full version by June or so, but
(02/22/2009 01:21:22 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can deploy what I have this week & get everyone set up with users
(02/22/2009 01:21:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, that sounds good.  2009 is implied but it might be 2010 ...
(02/22/2009 01:21:41 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: if that is helpful
(02/22/2009 01:21:47 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: 2009
(02/22/2009 01:22:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have some clients that want to use it too :)
(02/22/2009 01:22:22 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: python foundation is interested & django too
(02/22/2009 01:22:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: which will be nice
(02/22/2009 01:22:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, May as well leave it until after the April meeting, so we know who the new trustees are
(02/22/2009 01:22:42 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 01:22:47 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sounds reasonable
(02/22/2009 01:23:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: No pressure ... just focus
(02/22/2009 01:23:05 PM) fmccor: Unless we know in a week. :)
(02/22/2009 01:23:11 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can hook into ldap if we ever want all devs to have some access
(02/22/2009 01:23:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, heh
(02/22/2009 01:23:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, that might be a nice touch
(02/22/2009 01:23:50 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: easy as pie
(02/22/2009 01:23:57 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: already set up for it
(02/22/2009 01:24:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: Moving on ... Trustee Elections 2009
(02/22/2009 01:24:34 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: the only nominee that I know of that is still thinking about accepting is Patrick
(02/22/2009 01:25:00 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: not sure about ciaran
(02/22/2009 01:25:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: I sent a summary mail to -nfp and -dev-announce.  The rules do not cover what happens if we have 2 candidates for 2 vacancies ... we need to formalise that here and now.
(02/22/2009 01:25:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 01:25:46 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: rane, jmbsvicetto ping
(02/22/2009 01:25:52 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ^^
(02/22/2009 01:26:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: I propose that when the number of candidates match the number vacancies, they be elected unopposed.  No election required
(02/22/2009 01:26:24 PM) dmwaters: agreed
(02/22/2009 01:26:24 PM) fmccor: I agree.
(02/22/2009 01:26:42 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: recoreded
(02/22/2009 01:27:02 PM) fmccor left the room.
(02/22/2009 01:27:02 PM) fmccor [n=fmccor@gentoo/developer/fmccor] entered the room.
(02/22/2009 01:27:02 PM) #gentoo-trustees: mode (+o fmccor ) by ChanServ
(02/22/2009 01:27:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: When should they take their places ?   I suggest that the date be held regardless. They might have real life that prevents bringing forward the start date
(02/22/2009 01:27:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: does that need to be added to the bylaws?
(02/22/2009 01:28:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, probably not, its more a Standard Operating Procedure.  If we don't have a place to maintain SOPs, then we should add it
(02/22/2009 01:28:50 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 01:28:51 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, Not necessarily --- I think it's really a matter for the election project in the end.
(02/22/2009 01:29:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, that works for me too
(02/22/2009 01:29:24 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair adds SOP to list of features to add to km-suite
(02/22/2009 01:29:27 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, I do think we have to hold the date.
(02/22/2009 01:29:57 PM) fmccor: That is in the bylaws, I think.
(02/22/2009 01:30:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, me too, we can't very well say we don't need an election, you can start tomorrow
(02/22/2009 01:30:14 PM) ***dmwaters nods
(02/22/2009 01:30:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks dmwaters 
(02/22/2009 01:30:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 3 Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees
(02/22/2009 01:31:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 217511 ... still open to get some long term maintainance for the store. musikc is not here
(02/22/2009 01:31:54 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/217511 "The Gentoo Store is Out of Date"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; neddyseagoon@g.o:trustees@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:32:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: 224689 tsunam needs to pay himself
(02/22/2009 01:32:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 234705  
(02/22/2009 01:32:52 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/234705 "Document of being an active developer"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:araujo@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:33:17 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: what are we needing for this one
(02/22/2009 01:33:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ?
(02/22/2009 01:33:23 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: a design?
(02/22/2009 01:33:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: if that's it I can take a stab at it
(02/22/2009 01:33:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: araujo was going to provide the master.  The PDF has 2008 on it.  I spoke with him in -dev ... but hes not done it yet
(02/22/2009 01:34:11 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, I'll poke him
(02/22/2009 01:34:12 PM) fmccor: This is just issuing a certificate to active developers when needed, isn't it?  I think the bug has a form attached to it.
(02/22/2009 01:34:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, It does.  Its a PDF with 2008 in the PDF ... we need to be able to maintain the form
(02/22/2009 01:35:20 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can add that in as a feature too
(02/22/2009 01:35:32 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: gen the pdf file & email it
(02/22/2009 01:35:46 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: to whomever wil be signing
(02/22/2009 01:36:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 245227 ... robbat2 was going to do something but he wanted info from tsunam about out turnover
(02/22/2009 01:36:04 PM) fmccor: That's you as secretary, probably
(02/22/2009 01:36:04 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/245227 "Funding request: replacement hard drive for osprey.gentoo.org"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:36:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yeah, we agreed me for European devs
(02/22/2009 01:36:42 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 01:37:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: its recorded in the logs a meeting or two ago
(02/22/2009 01:37:20 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: topic in infra says osprey is fixed
(02/22/2009 01:37:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 253491 Gentoo Store - Add Case stickers, badges
(02/22/2009 01:37:26 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/253491 "Gentoo Store - Add Case stickers, badges."; Gentoo Infrastructure, Other; ASSI; david@linuxcrazy.com:trustees@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:38:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: there was some interest in letting david handle the store with musikc
(02/22/2009 01:38:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, yep but it took a lot of pain ... we want -infra to be able to repair stuff without asking
(02/22/2009 01:38:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: I agree completely
(02/22/2009 01:38:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: comprookie2000, ping
(02/22/2009 01:38:30 PM) comprookie2000: hello
(02/22/2009 01:38:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: comprookie2000, are you interested in helping maintain the Gentoo store ?
(02/22/2009 01:39:04 PM) comprookie2000: yes
(02/22/2009 01:39:11 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: excellent
(02/22/2009 01:39:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: comprookie2000, please discuss with musikc when shes around next and work something out between you.  Is that ok ?
(02/22/2009 01:40:09 PM) fmccor: She's still out of the country, I think.
(02/22/2009 01:40:26 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes she is
(02/22/2009 01:40:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, possibly ... 
(02/22/2009 01:40:43 PM) comprookie2000: That would be fine, I will do that when she is back
(02/22/2009 01:40:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: comprookie2000, thanks.
(02/22/2009 01:40:57 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: fantastico comprookie2000, thanks!
(02/22/2009 01:41:00 PM) comprookie2000: np
(02/22/2009 01:41:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 254588 # Possible confusion over use of the Gentoo Penguin (Quicktime Penguin) Logo
(02/22/2009 01:41:24 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/254588 "Possible confusion over use of the Gentoo Penguin (Quicktime Penguin) Logo"; Documentation, Other documents; NEW; fmccor@g.o:trustees@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:41:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: we should change this image
(02/22/2009 01:42:02 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have looked into it a bit & its obvious that its not CC lic
(02/22/2009 01:42:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: to what ?
(02/22/2009 01:42:20 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: could use the linux penguin
(02/22/2009 01:42:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: The last comment on the bug is looking for a new image
(02/22/2009 01:42:47 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, you mean from the kernel ?
(02/22/2009 01:42:53 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes
(02/22/2009 01:43:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: that's creative commons lic, iirc
(02/22/2009 01:43:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, is that an offer to attach a file to the bug that the docs team can just pick up ?
(02/22/2009 01:43:33 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sure
(02/22/2009 01:43:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks
(02/22/2009 01:43:46 PM) comprookie2000: a good contest for users would be to create a new one
(02/22/2009 01:44:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: comprookie2000, I like that idea except I don't want to tell users whey we need it
(02/22/2009 01:44:59 PM) comprookie2000: understood
(02/22/2009 01:45:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 255274 Funding request: SATA HDD for superh development board
(02/22/2009 01:45:21 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/255274 "Funding request: SATA HDD for SuperH development board"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; armin76@g.o:trustees@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:45:44 PM) fmccor: armin76 is here I think.
(02/22/2009 01:45:57 PM) armin76: yup
(02/22/2009 01:46:27 PM) armin76: i'll try to get it done next week
(02/22/2009 01:46:31 PM) armin76: or this week
(02/22/2009 01:46:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: It has 3 votes in favour. Did tsunam do the transfer armin76 ?
(02/22/2009 01:47:02 PM) armin76: NeddySeagoon: nope, because as the latest comment said, there was some issues
(02/22/2009 01:47:15 PM) armin76: i hope to solve them this week and then ask for the refund
(02/22/2009 01:47:34 PM) armin76: i.e, before march
(02/22/2009 01:47:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: armin76, ok.
(02/22/2009 01:48:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 256441 foundation-announce@gentoo.org mailing list for official Foundation correspondence.
(02/22/2009 01:48:06 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/256441 "foundation-announce@gentoo.org mailing list for official Foundation correspondence."; Gentoo Infrastructure, Mailing Lists; NEW; fmccor@g.o:infra-bugs@g.o
(02/22/2009 01:49:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: Any update to the bug?  We need this list in the next week in case we have an election
(02/22/2009 01:50:10 PM) fmccor: I think it's waiting for a list of whom to subscribe to it?
(02/22/2009 01:50:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, we have a list of @gentoo addresses to pass to -infra and quantumsummers was testing the ex devs ... 
(02/22/2009 01:50:55 PM) fmccor: As I recall, robbat2 said there was no problem creating it.
(02/22/2009 01:51:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, can you provide a list of address to -infra please, not on the bug ...    :)
(02/22/2009 01:51:57 PM) fmccor: OK.  Last comment on the bug is a request to infra.
(02/22/2009 01:52:09 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes I can do that
(02/22/2009 01:52:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: we can manage bounces and try to track down members who have changed email
(02/22/2009 01:53:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, sounds good
(02/22/2009 01:53:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 4 Actions From Previous Meetings on hold for one or more actions above
(02/22/2009 01:53:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: No change ...
(02/22/2009 01:54:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 5 Membership Applications -..
(02/22/2009 01:54:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: r0bertz and a3li  Gentoo developers
(02/22/2009 01:54:53 PM) fmccor: Yes to both developers.
(02/22/2009 01:55:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm in favour of both
(02/22/2009 01:55:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dmwaters: ^^?
(02/22/2009 01:55:08 PM) dmwaters: me also
(02/22/2009 01:55:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, ?
(02/22/2009 01:55:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: :)
(02/22/2009 01:55:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks ... they become members but do not get to vote or stand in the 2009 election as its after the recording date
(02/22/2009 01:55:54 PM) dmwaters: nodnod
(02/22/2009 01:55:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: WEIRDEDOUT
(02/22/2009 01:56:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm in favour, having spoken to him and heard his podcast
(02/22/2009 01:56:32 PM) fmccor: I still support him for reasons I've already given --- he's here if anyone wishes to speak to him.
(02/22/2009 01:56:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, ?
(02/22/2009 01:56:50 PM) dmwaters: i'm in favor also
(02/22/2009 01:57:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: Carried 
(02/22/2009 01:57:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: good, recorded
(02/22/2009 01:57:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: oahong
(02/22/2009 01:57:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: welcome weirdedout
(02/22/2009 01:57:18 PM) fmccor: weirdedout, you're in. :)
(02/22/2009 01:57:22 PM) weirdedout: thank you :)
(02/22/2009 01:57:49 PM) fmccor: Don't know a thing about oahong --- let me see if I can find his application ....
(02/22/2009 01:58:01 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair hands weirdedout the special foundation member cookie ;)
(02/22/2009 01:58:14 PM) NeddySeagoon: oahong is a chinese contributor to an overlay ... if you have seen trustees@ ... he is vouched for by r0bertz
(02/22/2009 01:58:18 PM) ***weirdedout eats cookie.
(02/22/2009 01:58:39 PM) dmwaters: i'm in favor
(02/22/2009 01:58:55 PM) fmccor: I just saw it.  I''m in favor
(02/22/2009 01:59:35 PM) fmccor: Just needed to refresh my memory.
(02/22/2009 02:00:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm in favour too
(02/22/2009 02:00:05 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: thoughts?
(02/22/2009 02:00:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: carried
(02/22/2009 02:00:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ah, good recorded
(02/22/2009 02:00:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, sorry, I was doing the +V
(02/22/2009 02:00:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: np sir
(02/22/2009 02:01:09 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair hands a cookie to oahong
(02/22/2009 02:01:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 6 # Annual General Meeting Planning
(02/22/2009 02:01:44 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: is this an irc thing or in person?
(02/22/2009 02:01:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: This is the only public meeting we are required by law to hold.  I suggest it replaces our April meeting
(02/22/2009 02:02:04 PM) fmccor: Has to be irc, I think.
(02/22/2009 02:02:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 02:02:25 PM) dmwaters: april is better for me
(02/22/2009 02:02:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, I don't see the foundation paying for my flights :)
(02/22/2009 02:02:33 PM) fmccor: So, it would be combined with the introduction of the new board?
(02/22/2009 02:03:06 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, It will be after the election and unless you change your mind, you won't be a trustee then ...
(02/22/2009 02:03:15 PM) dmwaters: ah ok:P
(02/22/2009 02:03:24 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers: pONG
(02/22/2009 02:03:28 PM) jmbsvicetto: sorry
(02/22/2009 02:04:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yes. so we can introduce the new trustees,  Typically, the meeting would elect trustees but we will have done it before hand which is ok
(02/22/2009 02:04:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: hi jmbsvicetto, just wanted to let you know about the boards decision regarding an uncontested election
(02/22/2009 02:04:31 PM) fmccor: Makes sense.
(02/22/2009 02:04:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, what topics are we legally obliged to discuss ?
(02/22/2009 02:05:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: In the UK, it would be reports from all the officers
(02/22/2009 02:05:22 PM) fmccor: I don't know that there are any.  Typically, financial things (like annual report).
(02/22/2009 02:05:24 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers: we were expecting that already. Thanks for the poke, though
(02/22/2009 02:05:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: kk
(02/22/2009 02:06:35 PM) fmccor: Yes, the annual report would contain reports from the officers.  Let me see if I can track it down quickly.
(02/22/2009 02:06:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: Chairmans report, secys report ...  Assets and liabilities ... balance sheet etc 
(02/22/2009 02:07:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, we don't need it right now but it looks like there will be some prep to go into it
(02/22/2009 02:08:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: The annual report is a public document which we should circulate to members and post on the web
(02/22/2009 02:08:58 PM) fmccor: OK, the annual meeting is pretty much driven by the members.  There is no specific set of topics which must be covered.
(02/22/2009 02:09:50 PM) fmccor: I'd expect to present a "State of the Foundation" report and then take questions, perhaps submitted before the meeting.
(02/22/2009 02:11:02 PM) fmccor: There is no penalty for not holding one even though a meeting is required by statute --- but if we don't hold one, any member can get a court order forcing one.
(02/22/2009 02:11:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok - lets firm it up on trustees@ then
(02/22/2009 02:11:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, yeah ... lets just hold an AGM so we can be seen to be open
(02/22/2009 02:12:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 7 Date of Next Meeting - Sunday 15 March 2009 1900 UTC
(02/22/2009 02:12:12 PM) fmccor: I wasn't suggesting we not hold one. :)
(02/22/2009 02:12:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: Is that ok for everyone ?
(02/22/2009 02:12:23 PM) fmccor: Should be OK.
(02/22/2009 02:12:27 PM) dmwaters: can we please make that a different date
(02/22/2009 02:12:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, suggestions ?
(02/22/2009 02:12:45 PM) dmwaters: that's my birthday and i know i won't be around, heh
(02/22/2009 02:12:59 PM) dmwaters: what about the sunday after?
(02/22/2009 02:13:04 PM) fmccor: The 22nd then?
(02/22/2009 02:13:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: the next weekend is pycon & I will be unavailable
(02/22/2009 02:13:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: I can do any day at 19:00 UTC
(02/22/2009 02:13:20 PM) dmwaters: hmm
(02/22/2009 02:13:22 PM) fmccor: So can I.
(02/22/2009 02:13:26 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: oh, wait nm
(02/22/2009 02:13:29 PM) dmwaters: monday the 16th?
(02/22/2009 02:13:55 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, You were saying?
(02/22/2009 02:13:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: weekdays, 2000 might be better - work can get a bit hetic
(02/22/2009 02:14:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: Monday 16 at what time ?
(02/22/2009 02:14:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: fmccor I can be there on the 22nd, or the 16h
(02/22/2009 02:14:47 PM) dmwaters: if the 22nd is better we can do that
(02/22/2009 02:14:49 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: 2000UTC is good here
(02/22/2009 02:14:58 PM) fmccor: The 22nd then --- I don't think tsunam can make workdays
(02/22/2009 02:15:03 PM) dmwaters: up to you guys, just not the 15th please :)
(02/22/2009 02:15:16 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: happy impending bday dmwaters
(02/22/2009 02:15:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: Lets do Sunday 22nd at 1900 then ... keep things as normal as possible
(02/22/2009 02:15:24 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(02/22/2009 02:15:27 PM) dmwaters: ok
(02/22/2009 02:15:49 PM) fmccor: US will be going to daylight time someplace in there, so yes, please keep it 1900. :)
(02/22/2009 02:15:58 PM) dmwaters: the 8th of march
(02/22/2009 02:16:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: Item 8  Any other business
(02/22/2009 02:16:01 PM) dmwaters: i think
(02/22/2009 02:16:07 PM) dmwaters: is daylight savings time
(02/22/2009 02:16:10 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Pycon 2009
(02/22/2009 02:16:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: march 27-29
(02/22/2009 02:16:28 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, yep ... for the USA
(02/22/2009 02:16:33 PM) fmccor: dmwaters, So soon. :(  That's just 2 weeks.
(02/22/2009 02:16:45 PM) dmwaters: fmccor: nod
(02/22/2009 02:16:45 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will be organizing a gentoo BoF again
(02/22/2009 02:17:09 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: do we want anything to be available?
(02/22/2009 02:17:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: like tshirts, stickers, etc
(02/22/2009 02:17:40 PM) fmccor: I'd think so
(02/22/2009 02:17:49 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I'm doing a little presentation on gentoo/python/django
(02/22/2009 02:17:55 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: should have a nice turnout
(02/22/2009 02:17:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, get stuff organised early ... nobody did it for FOSDEM so it didn't happen
(02/22/2009 02:18:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will
(02/22/2009 02:18:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: its in a month so not much time
(02/22/2009 02:18:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: exactly
(02/22/2009 02:18:41 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: is there a budget you would like me to stick to?
(02/22/2009 02:18:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: tee shirts and stuff will be 3 weeks
(02/22/2009 02:19:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I think maybe 50 stickers & some tsirts
(02/22/2009 02:19:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, make a proposal on trustees@
(02/22/2009 02:19:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, will do
(02/22/2009 02:19:36 PM) #gentoo-trustees: mode (+v araujo ) by ChanServ
(02/22/2009 02:19:38 PM) araujo: hello all
(02/22/2009 02:19:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: araujo is here
(02/22/2009 02:19:57 PM) araujo: quantumsummers, let me upload a new version of the cert right now
(02/22/2009 02:20:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: araujo: what is the status, ah, great
(02/22/2009 02:20:10 PM) araujo: what's up guys? :)
(02/22/2009 02:20:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: araujo: just finishing a meeting
(02/22/2009 02:20:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: araujo, can you upload the master so the foundation can maintain it please ?
(02/22/2009 02:20:25 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: glad I caught you
(02/22/2009 02:20:32 PM) araujo: quantumsummers, well.. if the community likes the current design, I guess this is pretty much done
(02/22/2009 02:20:42 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: araujo: what are you using to make it
(02/22/2009 02:20:45 PM) araujo: NeddySeagoon, of course I can, I do it right now
(02/22/2009 02:20:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: araujo, thanks
(02/22/2009 02:21:02 PM) araujo: quantumsummers, scribus, I will upload the sources right now
(02/22/2009 02:21:09 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: perfect, thanks araujo
(02/22/2009 02:21:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: any more for any more ?
(02/22/2009 02:21:18 PM) ***tanderson may need one of them sometime
(02/22/2009 02:21:22 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair like scribus alot
(02/22/2009 02:21:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: not for me
(02/22/2009 02:21:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 9 ...  Open floor
(02/22/2009 02:21:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have one thing ...
(02/22/2009 02:22:01 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yessir
(02/22/2009 02:22:06 PM) NeddySeagoon: Happy birthday when it comes dmwaters 
(02/22/2009 02:22:12 PM) dmwaters: NeddySeagoon: hehe
(02/22/2009 02:22:24 PM) dmwaters: NeddySeagoon: i feel old already;p
(02/22/2009 02:22:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, is it a big one ?
(02/22/2009 02:22:46 PM) dmwaters: NeddySeagoon: sort of
(02/22/2009 02:23:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: dmwaters, enjoy yourself but don't get too hung over 
(02/22/2009 02:23:49 PM) dmwaters: NeddySeagoon: i think the general plan seems to be for my aunt to take me out on the town and go drinking
(02/22/2009 02:23:49 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: stay away from the tequilla
(02/22/2009 02:24:03 PM) antarus: and the yaeger, and...
(02/22/2009 02:24:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: lol
(02/22/2009 02:24:12 PM) dmwaters: lol
(02/22/2009 02:24:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: any more for any more ...
(02/22/2009 02:24:32 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: not I
(02/22/2009 02:24:33 PM) dmwaters: i learned my drinking lessons 10 years ago guys;p
(02/22/2009 02:24:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: :D
(02/22/2009 02:24:44 PM) fmccor: Not for me.
(02/22/2009 02:24:48 PM) antarus: I never learned ;)
(02/22/2009 02:24:48 PM) ***NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed