Gentoo and me
=============

I have been a developer since January 2007. I became involved to learn
and to help make sure that all things Lisp are easily available on
Gentoo. I have been Lisp Project lead since January 2008. Besides Lisp I
maintain some software that I feel should be available even though I do
not use it (much yet), such as SML implementations and lilypond. Guile
is one of the Scheme implementations I maintain.

Roy Bamford's questions
=======================

1. Please tell us how/if you plan to fix GLEP 39. (You may not consider
it broken)

I don't think it is broken.

2. As one of the first priorities will be setting policy for pending
appeals what policy do you propose ?

I do not like the way developers were expelled recently. For me at least
it came out of the blue and seemingly without any prior warning or
corrective action. I would like the whole process to be more careful.
Devrel should give one or maybe even two formal public warnings before
asking the council to expel a developer. The council should hold a
public hearing after examining the evidence and decide. I'd like all
recent 3 expulsions to be turned into first formal warnings. Any future
council could decide to reinstate an expelled developer. I don't think a
separate appeals process is necessary to handle this.

3. If you are not on the council already, how will you make time for
the extra work?

I will slack less.

4. How do you think the council and trustees can work together to make
Gentoo better?
Not just the code base but the cooperative environment we all work
together in too.
Disclosure - I have a personal interest in responses as a trustee.

I think it is the council's role to be the glue that binds us all
together. The council should also take responsibility for projects that
affect or represent all of Gentoo, such as PMS and releng. The council
should make sure that things are moving forward and that developers (and
users too) are not left wondering what is going on.

5. Tell us a little about yourself - the skills and experience you can
bring to the council?

I have the brains to quickly comprehend problems and to evaluate and
create solutions. I am not afraid to make mistakes or to admit that I am
wrong. I do not mind interacting with people that some find difficult.
With this skill I will try to bridge any fissures that divide us.

6. Tell us one outstanding (in your own mind) contribution you made to
Gentoo in the last year.

I have helped to build a small community of Gentoo Lispers by
encouraging and helping users in their studies and enabling them to
easily contribute through our git overlay and with their help I have
significantly increased the number of available recent versions of
Scheme implementations and related software. I have recently recruited
one of those users to become a developer.
