<?xml version="1.0" encoding="iso-8859-1"?>


<mainpage id="devrel-07232003">
<date>23 July 2003</date>
<title>DevRel Meeting</title>
<chapter>
<title>DevRel Meeting - 23 July 2003</title>
<section>
<body>

Jul 23 19:06:10 &lt;seemant&gt;	ok, let's get started
<br/>Jul 23 19:06:16 &lt;seemant&gt;	hi grant, just in time
<br/>Jul 23 19:06:37 &lt;seemant&gt;	I'd like to just kick off with having spyderous introduce his ideas to us about user relations
<br/>Jul 23 19:06:41 &lt;seemant&gt;	spyderous: here?
<br/>Jul 23 19:07:26 &lt;seemant&gt;	just to quickly pre-cap: intro spyderous, intro stuart and his proposal (related to glep # 3 btw)
<br/>Jul 23 19:07:53 &lt;seemant&gt;	then we'd like to move Conflict Res. to an active subproject
<br/>Jul 23 19:07:58 &lt;seemant&gt;	so we'll address that
<br/>Jul 23 19:08:10 &lt;seemant&gt;	and an update from Brandy about User Rel side of things
<br/>Jul 23 19:08:24 &lt;seemant&gt;	finally, GWN announcement for DevRel in order?
<br/>Jul 23 19:08:54 &lt;seemant&gt;	(I'm lagging big time)
<br/>Jul 23 19:09:28 &lt;seemant&gt;	erm, ok, let's skip ahead to Stuart
<br/>Jul 23 19:09:30 &lt;spyderous&gt;	here
<br/>Jul 23 19:09:36 &lt;seemant&gt;	haha
<br/>Jul 23 19:09:39 &lt;seemant&gt;	spyderous: ok, you're up
<br/>Jul 23 19:09:40 &lt;spyderous&gt;	skip
<br/>Jul 23 19:09:59 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i'll go after stuart
<br/>Jul 23 19:10:05 &lt;seemant&gt;	Stuart: then you
<br/>Jul 23 19:10:14 &lt;Stuart&gt;	k
<br/>Jul 23 19:10:21 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seemant: 
<br/>Jul 23 19:10:25 &lt;Stuart&gt;	bah
<br/>Jul 23 19:10:46 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I've put together a proposal for how I personally see my role as a Gentoo Developer
<br/>Jul 23 19:11:04 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seemant's already circulated the URL, so I won't repeat it here
<br/>Jul 23 19:11:37 &lt;avenj&gt;	a non-pdf version of that would be sexy, btw - dunno if anyone's done that yet
<br/>Jul 23 19:11:47 &lt;avenj&gt;	actually, a guidexml version on devrel would probably be best
<br/>Jul 23 19:12:08 &lt;Stuart&gt;	guidexml takes too long to write
<br/>Jul 23 19:12:34 &lt;Stuart&gt;	and is a pain to edit ;-)
<br/>Jul 23 19:12:44 &lt;avenj&gt;	i can guidexmlify it at some point, just not exactly soon
<br/>Jul 23 19:12:58 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I'll look into writing a guidexml export filter for OO 1.1, now that I have that installed and working - that ok as a compromise?
<br/>Jul 23 19:13:21 &lt;avenj&gt;	whatever works
<br/>Jul 23 19:13:34 &lt;Stuart&gt;	grin - PDF works for most of the world ;-)
<br/>Jul 23 19:13:41 &lt;seemant&gt;	from the people who've read it -- I know spyderous has commented
<br/>Jul 23 19:13:54 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: your comments from User Rel point of view?
<br/>Jul 23 19:14:23 &lt;Brandy&gt;	The users would *love* the ability to have their ebuilds sponsored
<br/>Jul 23 19:14:53 &lt;Brandy&gt;	One thing to keep in mind is what we do if/when Gentoo decides to maintain the package itself
<br/>Jul 23 19:15:08 &lt;Brandy&gt;	i.e. where does the user stand?
<br/>Jul 23 19:15:21 &lt;Stuart&gt;	mmm
<br/>Jul 23 19:15:40 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I don't see sponsorship as Gentoo giving up responsibility for the ebuild
<br/>Jul 23 19:16:12 &lt;Stuart&gt;	a sizable proportion of sponsored ebuilds will still need editing by devs before they're fit to commit
<br/>Jul 23 19:16:52 &lt;seemant&gt;	Stuart: I wonder if you have seen liquidx's ebuild writing/submitting doc?
<br/>Jul 23 19:16:52 &lt;spyderous&gt;	qa testing, if nothing else &lt;/interrupt&gt;
<br/>Jul 23 19:17:06 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seement: the one on www.gentoo.org?
<br/>Jul 23 19:17:22 &lt;seemant&gt;	http://peregrine.gentoo.org/~liquidx/ebuildmistakes.html
<br/>Jul 23 19:17:51 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seement: looking now
<br/>Jul 23 19:18:18 &lt;seemant&gt;	that's more implementation detail oriented
<br/>Jul 23 19:18:31 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seemant: agreed
<br/>Jul 23 19:18:54 &lt;seemant&gt;	but it has some good info to minimise the dev-editing part of a submitted ebuild
<br/>Jul 23 19:19:30 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I think it's important that the Gentoo Developers who sponsor users' ebuilds are still ultimately the ones responsible for the ebuilds
<br/>Jul 23 19:20:11 &lt;seemant&gt;	the thing I would like to get a feel for is whether you all think we can use/adapt/adopt Stuart's guidelines into devrel's handbook project and/or propose to expand the developer policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:20:21 &lt;seemant&gt;	Stuart: 100% agreed
<br/>Jul 23 19:20:48 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i feel like much of it could serve as guidelines rather than policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:20:56 &lt;avenj&gt;	i agree with spyderous wrt guidelines rather than policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:21:25 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: g2boojum: klieber: ?
<br/>Jul 23 19:21:44 &lt;klieber&gt;	I don't do enough ebuild development stuff to really offer a good opinion
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:03 *	klieber has committed....~6 ebuilds in his entire career :)
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:04 &lt;Brandy&gt;	I think guidelines too since the proposal outlines the dev him/herself having the final say on sponsoring any ebuild
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:11 &lt;avenj&gt;	klieber's lying - he's told me he secretly has a desire to maintain kde and openoffice
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:18 &lt;Stuart&gt;	any particular reason why guidelines rather than policy?
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:22 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: well, Stuart's doc is more of a way to define the relationship between an ebuild, a gentoo developer, and a user-dev
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:36 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: because it should be up to each developer how they want to handle new ebuilds
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:46 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	I'd say it's a good set of guidelines.  I think more devs need to &quot;buy-in&quot; before it could be policy.
<br/>Jul 23 19:22:53 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: and potentially on a per-ebuild case-by-case basis, too
<br/>Jul 23 19:23:32 &lt;klieber&gt;	Stuart: one area that I don't think should be policy is the &quot;requirement&quot; that notifications be sent out for updates and security fixes.
<br/>Jul 23 19:23:34 &lt;Stuart&gt;	avenj: that's fair enough, but if Gentoo wants to tackle QA, at some point something like this'll have to become policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:23:58 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: why? what if i want to suck up a user-submitted ebuild and do everything with it myself without user involvement on that ebuild?
<br/>Jul 23 19:24:07 &lt;Stuart&gt;	just to be clear - I never intended this to become policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:24:42 &lt;avenj&gt;	(that is, past the original ebuild)
<br/>Jul 23 19:24:54 &lt;Stuart&gt;	avenj: that's not what my doc is about
<br/>Jul 23 19:25:10 &lt;spyderous&gt;	that's what _part_ of it is about. 
<br/>Jul 23 19:25:13 &lt;Stuart&gt;	avenj: with the doc, I'm trying to standardise the way *I* work on ebuilds
<br/>Jul 23 19:25:18 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: right - hence guidelines
<br/>Jul 23 19:25:19 &lt;avenj&gt;	rather than policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:25:27 &lt;spyderous&gt;	the relationship between user and developer could be guidelines ; the qa (in some form) could be policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:26:16 &lt;seemant&gt;	ya I mean I think the acceptance tests and the incidence tests would make for good qa policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:26:47 &lt;Stuart&gt;	argh - I can't type fast enough ;-)
<br/>Jul 23 19:27:18 &lt;spyderous&gt;	well, it is 6 against 1.
<br/>Jul 23 19:27:28 &lt;Stuart&gt;	grin - 6 against 0 you mean ;-)
<br/>Jul 23 19:28:39 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I'm not here to argue the case for making anything in the doc into official policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:28:39 &lt;seemant&gt;	I don't think it's that
<br/>Jul 23 19:28:39 &lt;seemant&gt;	I think people generally like your doc
<br/>Jul 23 19:29:03 &lt;seemant&gt;	avenj: we'll talk later more on the handbook, yeah?
<br/>Jul 23 19:29:06 &lt;avenj&gt;	seemant: yeah
<br/>Jul 23 19:29:19 &lt;avenj&gt;	those docs i promised may be delayed some - releng is sucking up time
<br/>Jul 23 19:29:23 &lt;seemant&gt;	so, moving along then -- spyderous, who are you and what are your ideas about user rel?
<br/>Jul 23 19:29:30 &lt;seemant&gt;	avenj: understandably -- it's not a problem :)
<br/>Jul 23 19:29:53 &lt;spyderous&gt;	Hi everyone. My name's Donnie.
<br/>Jul 23 19:30:22 *	g2boojum waits for the chorus of &quot;Hi, Donnie&quot;.
<br/>Jul 23 19:30:36 &lt;spyderous&gt;	AA or devrel..hmm.
<br/>Jul 23 19:30:54 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i've noticed we have devrel things in place to deal with developer-to-advanced-user relations
<br/>Jul 23 19:31:06 &lt;spyderous&gt;	but not with what IMO is the majority of our user base
<br/>Jul 23 19:31:33 &lt;spyderous&gt;	we need to have more outreach efforts to the beginning-to-mid-level users
<br/>Jul 23 19:31:45 &lt;spyderous&gt;	making developers more accessible is one step
<br/>Jul 23 19:32:40 &lt;spyderous&gt;	this is a bad metaphor, but now we're more like distant gods than parents
<br/>Jul 23 19:33:10 &lt;spyderous&gt;	don't get me wrong, some of us are very approachable and willing to spend time working with users
<br/>Jul 23 19:33:18 &lt;spyderous&gt;	but that should be the goal for all of us
<br/>Jul 23 19:33:50 &lt;avenj&gt;	just to play devil's advocate for a minute - what's the tangible benefit of spending time working with not-very-advanced users?
<br/>Jul 23 19:33:50 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: understanding that I got my start with gentoo by helping users, why should it be the goal for all of us?
<br/>Jul 23 19:33:51 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i believe brandy's working on a faq for linux beginners
<br/>Jul 23 19:33:56 &lt;avenj&gt;	right, what klieber said
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:08 &lt;spyderous&gt;	the goal is that gentoo is a community
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:16 &lt;spyderous&gt;	and it should act like one
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:30 &lt;avenj&gt;	but what if a developer doesn't have time to spend working with users because they're developing?
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:31 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: not sure I follow your logic.
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:40 &lt;avenj&gt;	the community isn't going to go anywhere because i don't help Joe User
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:52 &lt;avenj&gt;	there's still 25,000 registered users on the forums, ~600 people at any one time in #gentoo, tec
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:52 &lt;avenj&gt;	er
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:53 &lt;avenj&gt;	etc
<br/>Jul 23 19:34:59 &lt;avenj&gt;	all of whom help each other out
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:08 &lt;klieber&gt;	I'm not saying we should all live in a white tower, but by the same token, we have some very anti-social developers who still provide an incredibly positive net contribution to gentoo
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:16 &lt;avenj&gt;	right
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:23 &lt;Stuart&gt;	agreed
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:29 &lt;spyderous&gt;	purposely avoiding users is not what we want to do
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:30 &lt;avenj&gt;	i think that developers interacting heavily with users should be an optional thing, something to do if you enjoy it
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:35 &lt;spyderous&gt;	maybe they don't actively go out and help users all the time
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:36 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: again, why?
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:40 &lt;spyderous&gt;	but they should at least be approachable
<br/>Jul 23 19:35:51 &lt;Brandy&gt;	We can always let User-Relations act as the conduit for users of all levels, thus insulating devs from the inane newbie questions
<br/>Jul 23 19:36:16 &lt;klieber&gt;	I agree that this is a community and all communities have different types of folks.
<br/>Jul 23 19:36:26 &lt;klieber&gt;	some folks are very quiet introverts, some are extroverts.
<br/>Jul 23 19:36:45 &lt;avenj&gt;	i guess you need to define 'approachable'
<br/>Jul 23 19:36:56 &lt;klieber&gt;	yes, that would help
<br/>Jul 23 19:37:03 &lt;spyderous&gt;	approachable meaning there's an obvious way to contact them
<br/>Jul 23 19:37:07 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	spyderous: Not to be too stupid about this, but define &quot;approachable&quot;.  Azarah, for instance, generally reponds to his bug reports and sometimes his e-mails, but he's perennially swamped.  I don't know that I really want him to be _more_ approachable.
<br/>Jul 23 19:37:09 &lt;spyderous&gt;	and it's posted publicly and easy to find
<br/>Jul 23 19:37:13 &lt;spyderous&gt;	associated with their expertise
<br/>Jul 23 19:37:22 &lt;avenj&gt;	sounds like the devlist to me
<br/>Jul 23 19:37:28 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: I like Brandy's idea, personally
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:00 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i suppose scaling up the size of user relations is always a possibility
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:15 &lt;spyderous&gt;	brandy by herself would probably having a little trouble dealing with every question that would go to every developer
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:25 &lt;klieber&gt;	indeed
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:42 &lt;avenj&gt;	i guess i don't really know what the purpose of approachable devs is
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:45 &lt;avenj&gt;	that is, what you feel the purpose is
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:47 &lt;klieber&gt;	but by the same token, danarmak would be buried if he had to respond to all KDE-related queries.
<br/>Jul 23 19:38:57 &lt;avenj&gt;	we have bugzilla for bug reports, for example
<br/>Jul 23 19:39:01 &lt;avenj&gt;	and feature requests
<br/>Jul 23 19:39:13 &lt;spyderous&gt;	if joe user has a question bob user can't answer, i think he should be able to contact &quot;the gentoo expert&quot; on it
<br/>Jul 23 19:39:14 &lt;avenj&gt;	we have gentoo-dev@gentoo.org for discussion about ebuild development
<br/>Jul 23 19:39:19 &lt;avenj&gt;	spyderous: why?
<br/>Jul 23 19:39:23 &lt;avenj&gt;	that is, why do we need to be tech support?
<br/>Jul 23 19:39:47 &lt;avenj&gt;	frankly, i'll do tech support for people in #gentoo or on the forums when i'm up for it, but i don't feel _obligated_ to do it and i don't think i _should_ feel obligated to do it
<br/>Jul 23 19:40:36 &lt;spyderous&gt;	there's a difference between obligation and encouragement
<br/>Jul 23 19:40:41 &lt;spyderous&gt;	just like between guidelines and policy
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:04 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: personally, I want to encourage all gentoo developers to do a) what they're good at and b) what makes them happy.
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:12 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i'd imagine some of us would be more than willing to answer questions we got, if we actually got them
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:16 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I think one thing that's important is that the devs don't lose touch with our userbase
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:22 &lt;spyderous&gt;	but since people can't figure out who to ask or how to ask them, they don't get asked
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:35 &lt;spyderous&gt;	Stuart's summed up the whole thing.
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:44 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: yeah, but my question is: how far does that extend?
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:44 &lt;klieber&gt;	ok, but isn't that our job?
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:59 &lt;Stuart&gt;	if the gentoo devs become mainly an inward-looking group, it'll eventually disappear up its own back passage
<br/>Jul 23 19:41:59 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: i mean, not losing touch with the userbase is obviously very important
<br/>Jul 23 19:42:05 &lt;avenj&gt;	but does that extend to being everyone's personal tech support?
<br/>Jul 23 19:42:13 &lt;Stuart&gt;	avenj: no it doesn't
<br/>Jul 23 19:42:15 &lt;avenj&gt;	okay
<br/>Jul 23 19:42:31 &lt;spyderous&gt;	it wouldn't be difficult to set up a tree of &quot;gentoo help&quot;, since there's an informal one already
<br/>Jul 23 19:42:34 &lt;spyderous&gt;	with devs at the top
<br/>Jul 23 19:42:42 &lt;Stuart&gt;	but how many of our devs have any idea about how the packages they write ebuilds for are actually used out there?
<br/>Jul 23 19:43:12 &lt;seemant&gt;	well look, there are attitudes among devs that do need to be addressed
<br/>Jul 23 19:43:26 &lt;seemant&gt;	bug 24933 sticks out
<br/>Jul 23 19:43:30 &lt;Stuart&gt;	and how many of them care? ;-) a lot I think
<br/>Jul 23 19:43:39 &lt;seemant&gt;	that's devs being *completely* out of touch with users
<br/>Jul 23 19:43:41 &lt;avenj&gt;	definitely
<br/>Jul 23 19:44:10 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Stuart: That's true.  At the same time, though, it is literally impossible to keep up w/ #gentoo, #gentoo-dev, the forums, and the -user, -dev, and -core mailing lists.
<br/>Jul 23 19:44:38 &lt;spyderous&gt;	keep up with what you can.
<br/>Jul 23 19:44:43 &lt;spyderous&gt;	it's that easy. =)
<br/>Jul 23 19:44:54 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: I think people already do that.
<br/>Jul 23 19:45:21 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I agree it's impossible to keep up.  I don't read the forums myself, for example - I just don't have the time
<br/>Jul 23 19:45:31 &lt;avenj&gt;	some devs just need a serious attitude adjustment - i guess i don't see how that necessarily fits with this
<br/>Jul 23 19:45:42 &lt;avenj&gt;	but i don't have a clear picture of what &quot;this&quot; is either, so i could be totally off
<br/>Jul 23 19:45:48 &lt;spyderous&gt;	you don't see how better attitudes fit in with getting along with users?
<br/>Jul 23 19:46:08 &lt;Stuart&gt;	lol
<br/>Jul 23 19:46:12 &lt;klieber&gt;	getting along != being more approachable, imo
<br/>Jul 23 19:46:20 &lt;avenj&gt;	klieber: right
<br/>Jul 23 19:46:33 &lt;klieber&gt;	we're talking about a number of different issues here, it seems.
<br/>Jul 23 19:46:34 &lt;spyderous&gt;	but to be approachable, you need to get along
<br/>Jul 23 19:47:15 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: I doubt that anyone here disagrees that we need to get along with our user base and be respectful of them in our interactions with them.
<br/>Jul 23 19:47:20 --&gt;	tberman (~tberman@dsl-207-112-41-32.tor.primus.ca) has joined #gentoo-devrel
<br/>Jul 23 19:47:22 &lt;spyderous&gt;	so 1) improved attitudes, 2) improved approachability, especially about development issues 3) simply ask devs who can to help out more 4) inform users what resources are available
<br/>Jul 23 19:47:39 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: can you please define #2 better?
<br/>Jul 23 19:47:39 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I'd go with 1) and 4)
<br/>Jul 23 19:47:53 &lt;spyderous&gt;	klieber: it's already in progress, with herds, metadata, etc.   
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:08 &lt;tberman&gt;	spyderous: improved attitudes means what exactly (srry, im so late, slow subway)
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:17 &lt;spyderous&gt;	if i have a question about &lt;random package&gt; and why its ebuild does this or that, i don't know who to ask
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:17 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: if the net result of #2 is expecting all devs to perform direct end-user support, then I think we should discuss that further.
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:22 &lt;avenj&gt;	tberman: that some devs have a nasty attitude for the sake of having a nasty attitude
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:32 &lt;tberman&gt;	avenj: who?
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:33 &lt;avenj&gt;	tberman: and despite slaps on the wrist, don't get the idea
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:35 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: you post a question on the forums, -user or -dev.
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:38 &lt;tberman&gt;	avenj: i havnt noticed that really
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:45 &lt;avenj&gt;	tberman: i sure have
<br/>Jul 23 19:48:47 &lt;tberman&gt;	well, with one dev i have, but other than that
<br/>Jul 23 19:49:34 &lt;tberman&gt;	spyderous: i would say #1 and #2 as the same
<br/>Jul 23 19:49:51 &lt;klieber&gt;	tberman: we were just saying they're different. :)
<br/>Jul 23 19:49:51 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	I'm happy w/ 1 and 4.  I think 3 already happens.  I think having particular devs handling 2 would probably be better than trying to get everybody to do so.  We could certainly use a few devs whose duties are really just to keep up w/ user issues.
<br/>Jul 23 19:50:12 *	g2boojum points to Brandy 
<br/>Jul 23 19:50:18 &lt;Brandy&gt;	hehe
<br/>Jul 23 19:50:29 &lt;tberman&gt;	haha, they dont seem to be to me, but i missed the previous stuff, so ill admit my own ignorance
<br/>Jul 23 19:50:46 &lt;klieber&gt;	honestly, I thought one of the primary goals of this project was to provide a better end user experience *without* bogging the dev team down with end user support
<br/>Jul 23 19:51:54 &lt;Stuart&gt;	klieber: to provide a better end-user experience, we need to know what's wrong with the current experience ;-)
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:09 &lt;klieber&gt;	Stuart: agreed -- I thought that's what we were here to do.
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:17 &lt;klieber&gt;	collect data and report a distilled version back to the dev team
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:18 &lt;Stuart&gt;	k
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:33 &lt;klieber&gt;	rather than try to strong-arm folks into doing something that they a) might not want to or b) might be ill-equipped to.
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:45 &lt;Stuart&gt;	agreed on both counts
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:51 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i'd be interested to hear your opinions on seemant's idea about opening #gentoo-dev.
<br/>Jul 23 19:52:57 &lt;spyderous&gt;	(occasionally)
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:16 &lt;spyderous&gt;	it seems to me that mirrors what i'm saying
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:23 &lt;klieber&gt;	Personally, I think it's a great idea on occasion. 
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:29 &lt;klieber&gt;	because we don't force anyone to participate in that
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:39 &lt;Brandy&gt;	seems to work really well on the weekends
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:40 *	g2boojum agrees w/ klieber 
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:52 &lt;Stuart&gt;	why isn't it open atm?
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:54 &lt;avenj&gt;	a regular scheduled 'open #-dev' day would be good
<br/>Jul 23 19:53:59 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: looked at #gentoo lately?
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:02 *	klieber points to #gentoo as the reason why -dev is locked
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:03 &lt;avenj&gt;	right
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:08 &lt;Stuart&gt;	lol
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:25 &lt;klieber&gt;	but I think opening it weekly is fine.
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:27 &lt;Stuart&gt;	so, how is opening #gentoo-dev gonna prevent the same thing from happening?
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:29 &lt;klieber&gt;	gives users a chance to interact, etc.
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:41 &lt;klieber&gt;	Stuart: because it's an occasional thing (as I understand it)
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:44 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Stuart: It's only for a limited period of time.
<br/>Jul 23 19:54:53 &lt;Stuart&gt;	fair enough
<br/>Jul 23 19:55:08 &lt;tberman&gt;	um, how is that different
<br/>Jul 23 19:55:11 &lt;tberman&gt;	i +v anyone who asks
<br/>Jul 23 19:55:22 &lt;tberman&gt;	and i +v people i see in #gentoo helping who seem to have ideas
<br/>Jul 23 19:55:40 &lt;tberman&gt;	its basically open now, just a bit a chat-sanity prevention
<br/>Jul 23 19:55:49 &lt;avenj&gt;	i'm more selective about voice
<br/>Jul 23 19:55:58 &lt;spyderous&gt;	a lot of people request a reason for it
<br/>Jul 23 19:56:01 &lt;avenj&gt;	too many people have showed up, asked for voice, and had something that belongs in #gentoo
<br/>Jul 23 19:56:01 &lt;avenj&gt;	right
<br/>Jul 23 19:56:07 &lt;tberman&gt;	and to prevent it from being basically 'oh, ebuild y is broken, im going into -dev and asking why why why
<br/>Jul 23 19:56:25 &lt;avenj&gt;	typically people try to use it as their own personal bugzilla or tech support channel
<br/>Jul 23 19:56:37 &lt;tberman&gt;	exactly, +m prevents that
<br/>Jul 23 19:56:48 &lt;spyderous&gt;	otoh, if it's a development-related question from a user, doesn't it belong in -dev?
<br/>Jul 23 19:57:03 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: isn't that why we can all selectively +v users?
<br/>Jul 23 19:57:26 &lt;avenj&gt;	spyderous: more often it's &quot;kde is segfaulting, can someone help me?&quot; or along those lines
<br/>Jul 23 19:57:52 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	spyderous: We also do have a completely open gentoo-dev mailing list.
<br/>Jul 23 19:57:54 &lt;Stuart&gt;	y'know, when businesses want to know what the customer experience is, they have two main tools at their disposal
<br/>Jul 23 19:57:55 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i would like to discover a way to emphasize that -dev is for development issues
<br/>Jul 23 19:57:59 &lt;spyderous&gt;	just like the mailing list, g2boojum
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:06 &lt;tberman&gt;	see, however, devs use it for the same thing, so its somewhat a bit hypocritical to say no users can use it for tech support, but devs can
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:07 &lt;spyderous&gt;	rarely do -user questions come on -dev
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:09 &lt;spyderous&gt;	people figure it out
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:10 &lt;tberman&gt;	i admit i do it as well
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:14 &lt;Stuart&gt;	one is market research - polls, invited forums etc
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:19 &lt;Stuart&gt;	the other is usability testing
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:43 &lt;Stuart&gt;	gentoo, as far as I can tell, doesn't really do either
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:55 &lt;Stuart&gt;	just a comment
<br/>Jul 23 19:58:57 &lt;avenj&gt;	what's involved with 'usability testing'?
<br/>Jul 23 19:59:06 *	avenj uses gentoo all the time - does that count? :)
<br/>Jul 23 19:59:17 *	tberman listens to stuart, he is s-m-a-r-t ;)
<br/>Jul 23 19:59:32 &lt;Stuart&gt;	real users are asked to try new products out.  Their feedback is recorded, as well as their actions and demeanour
<br/>Jul 23 19:59:40 *	Stuart is not smart, just old
<br/>Jul 23 19:59:43 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	tberman: Yes, but I can either ignore you, or answer you, and it's unlikely to stop me from seeing what other devs are saying.  If 500+ people are doing that, though....
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:02 &lt;Stuart&gt;	we push new ebuilds out all the time
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:08 &lt;spyderous&gt;	if we got a tighter reign on off-topic stuff in #gentoo-dev, it wouldn't be an issue.
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:16 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: isn't that what bugzilla is for?
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:17 &lt;tberman&gt;	g2boojum: oh, i doubt i would stop, but im just pointing out
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:23 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: and why some of us monitor the forums and #gentoo for comments?
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:31 &lt;Stuart&gt;	avenj: not really
<br/>Jul 23 20:00:50 &lt;Stuart&gt;	avenj: how many people can be bothered to post in bugzilla when they have a problem?
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:11 &lt;avenj&gt;	if they don't take the time to report a bug, they can't expect it to get fixed
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:17 &lt;avenj&gt;	that seems fair enough to me
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:20 &lt;Stuart&gt;	and the very name bugzilla implies 'bugs, faults' - there'll be people out there who think it's not for new ideas
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:26 &lt;spyderous&gt;	how many give up because bugzilla is too complicated.
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:26 &lt;avenj&gt;	judging by the sheer volume of new bugs, quite a few people can be bothered to post when they have a problem
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:42 &lt;avenj&gt;	note that i also mentioned #gentoo and the forums
<br/>Jul 23 20:01:46 &lt;avenj&gt;	which many devs read
<br/>Jul 23 20:02:07 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I did note that
<br/>Jul 23 20:02:08 &lt;avenj&gt;	i don't see how we could record user reactions to things other than monitoring #gentoo and the forums, which happens already
<br/>Jul 23 20:02:29 &lt;klieber&gt;	guys -- we're talking about a lot of things here.  so many, in fact, that I lost track of what it is that we're trying to accomplish.  Can someone help me by telling me what it is we're trying to do/decide?
<br/>Jul 23 20:02:33 &lt;Stuart&gt;	well, in the real world, they run usability labs, where people are filmed
<br/>Jul 23 20:02:45 &lt;avenj&gt;	Stuart: buy us a lab :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:03:00 &lt;avenj&gt;	#gentoo and the forums are effectively a usability lab, in that case
<br/>Jul 23 20:03:17 &lt;avenj&gt;	but klieber's right, we're all over the place: what's the goal?
<br/>Jul 23 20:03:38 &lt;Brandy&gt;	klieber: Often devs and newbie's seem to have mutually exclusive roles in Gentoo; they can seem worlds apart, but we also want to create the 'appearance' that their concerns will be dealt with by the dev community.
<br/>Jul 23 20:03:59 &lt;klieber&gt;	Brandy: sure -- I thought that's what the purpose of this project was.
<br/>Jul 23 20:04:09 &lt;klieber&gt;	I thought it was supposed to be a conduit
<br/>Jul 23 20:04:14 &lt;klieber&gt;	and a filter
<br/>Jul 23 20:04:22 &lt;Brandy&gt;	klieber: exactly.
<br/>Jul 23 20:04:27 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i think what's missing is an official tier of people willing to help users
<br/>Jul 23 20:04:58 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Brandy: Actually, we want to create the reality as well as the appearance.  I think klieber's asking if there's a _specific_ proposal that we're supposed to be considering.
<br/>Jul 23 20:05:06 &lt;klieber&gt;	indeed.
<br/>Jul 23 20:05:34 &lt;Stuart&gt;	then I want to make such a proposal, if I may
<br/>Jul 23 20:05:59 &lt;seemant&gt;	please
<br/>Jul 23 20:06:04 &lt;Stuart&gt;	k - thanks
<br/>Jul 23 20:06:15 &lt;Stuart&gt;	apologies if it's too specific and narrow for the group
<br/>Jul 23 20:06:22 *	avenj likes specifics
<br/>Jul 23 20:06:36 &lt;tberman&gt;	Stuart: do it in visio man, those charts were awesome
<br/>Jul 23 20:06:52 &lt;Stuart&gt;	I want to chair a user meeting on IRC about the webapps mess - and I want it publicised in GWN well in advance
<br/>Jul 23 20:07:11 &lt;Stuart&gt;	users who can't attend will be invited to email their opinions and suggestions instead
<br/>Jul 23 20:07:39 &lt;spyderous&gt;	the goal?
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:00 &lt;Stuart&gt;	the goal is to find out how our users think we should be installing webapps on their machines
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:18 &lt;Stuart&gt;	before we go ahead and write a tonne of ebuilds to do the job
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:37 &lt;tberman&gt;	Stuart: while i agree a level of dev-&gt;user interaction is a must, and very very good, a user irc meeting about it is the wrong way to go imo
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:42 &lt;tberman&gt;	use the gentoo-dev mailing list
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:46 &lt;tberman&gt;	thats what its for
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:53 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: on a related note -- method said you and him had talked about a wiki (tikiwiki?) -- how far away are we from that
<br/>Jul 23 20:08:58 &lt;tberman&gt;	and then you dont just get the corner case of users free at that time who are willing to irc
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:10 &lt;seemant&gt;	seeing as we've gotten waaaay off the agenda anyway :/
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:15 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: method was supposed to set up a proof-of-concept box while I secured some more permanent hardware.
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:18 &lt;spyderous&gt;	ok, let me sum up my points one last time.
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:19 &lt;spyderous&gt;	1) improved attitudes, 2) improved approachability, especially about development issues 3) simply ask devs who can to help out more 4) inform users what resources are available
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:24 &lt;Stuart&gt;	tberman: that's why you have to run two or three different chats at different times
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:24 &lt;spyderous&gt;	people disagreed with 2
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:25 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: I think method is still working on his side of thins
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:28 &lt;spyderous&gt;	agreed with the rest
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:32 --&gt;	coredumb (hidden-use@212.199.104.98) has joined #gentoo-devrel
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:49 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: I think php-team is working on ebuilding tikiwiki at least (I emailed them about it last night)
<br/>Jul 23 20:09:56 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: cool
<br/>Jul 23 20:10:02 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seemant: I emailed you back about tikiwiki
<br/>Jul 23 20:10:06 &lt;seemant&gt;	Stuart: yep :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:10:10 &lt;avenj&gt;	spyderous: i think we're looking for specifics about those items
<br/>Jul 23 20:10:41 &lt;Stuart&gt;	seemant: I can hack something together for tikiwiki quickly, while we sort out the webapps mess
<br/>Jul 23 20:10:48 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Stuart, tberman: I think we can leave the methods for gathering user input up to the devs who are interested.
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:10 &lt;Stuart&gt;	g2boojum: then you don't mind me going ahead with my proposal?
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:35 &lt;tberman&gt;	g2boojum: true, poing :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:36 &lt;tberman&gt;	er
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:37 &lt;tberman&gt;	point
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:38 &lt;seemant&gt;	Stuart: that would be nice
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:40 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Stuart: No, I certainly don't mind.  I don't think I should really have any say in the matter.
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:49 &lt;spyderous&gt;	i didn't realize i was going to talk so much. i'll put some more specifics together and send out an email or something.
<br/>Jul 23 20:11:59 &lt;seemant&gt;	ok, so moving on
<br/>Jul 23 20:12:12 &lt;seemant&gt;	how are we feeling about the Conflict Resolution/Ombudsman project idea?
<br/>Jul 23 20:12:14 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: ?
<br/>Jul 23 20:12:17 &lt;tberman&gt;	i love it
<br/>Jul 23 20:12:39 *	g2boojum won't have his page up until Friday.
<br/>Jul 23 20:12:44 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: no strong opinions one way or the other.  
<br/>Jul 23 20:13:08 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: can you summarise your weaker feelings?
<br/>Jul 23 20:13:21 &lt;spyderous&gt;	g2boojum: are you able to quickly summarize the ombudsman's role? i don't remember the result of the discussion
<br/>Jul 23 20:13:31 &lt;Brandy&gt;	I the Ombudsman a single individual, or is conflict resolution handled by a board?
<br/>Jul 23 20:13:32 &lt;seemant&gt;	spyderous: check the GLEP
<br/>Jul 23 20:13:36 &lt;Brandy&gt;	s/I/Is
<br/>Jul 23 20:13:43 &lt;tberman&gt;	Brandy: you too
<br/>Jul 23 20:14:18 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: same as I said before -- i'm mostly concerned with greasing squeeks and not solving the underlying issues.
<br/>Jul 23 20:14:25 &lt;spyderous&gt;	ah, he mentioned the page wouldn't be up til friday so i thought there were changes.
<br/>Jul 23 20:14:28 &lt;klieber&gt;	that said, I still see this position as a decent pressure valve
<br/>Jul 23 20:14:30 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Brandy: individual.  The ombudsman mediates.  It's the managers who have to make decisions.
<br/>Jul 23 20:14:51 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: so as a pressure valve, you're ok with at least experimenting with the idea?
<br/>Jul 23 20:14:54 &lt;klieber&gt;	sure
<br/>Jul 23 20:15:21 &lt;seemant&gt;	g2boojum: kk, when you have page ready, lemme know and we'll move it from planned to active subproject
<br/>Jul 23 20:15:25 &lt;seemant&gt;	that was quick :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:15:27 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	seemant: k
<br/>Jul 23 20:15:42 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: an update on User Rel from you?
<br/>Jul 23 20:15:44 &lt;spyderous&gt;	what's done to ensure the ombudsman has no conflicts of interest?
<br/>Jul 23 20:16:06 &lt;tberman&gt;	spyderous: there is a backup
<br/>Jul 23 20:16:19 &lt;Brandy&gt;	The user-rel page is up. It's rudimentary but does contain usable info
<br/>Jul 23 20:16:33 &lt;Brandy&gt;	I'm looking at adding a FAQ this week or so
<br/>Jul 23 20:17:27 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	Brandy: If you do, please let swift know.  If we're going to be distributing docs around the website, we need to make sure our docs team knows about them.
<br/>Jul 23 20:17:42 &lt;avenj&gt;	i don't think the docs team should necessarily have to review everything under each top level project
<br/>Jul 23 20:17:43 &lt;Brandy&gt;	And I'm also not sure how many devs will actually read info placed on user-rel, so I'm considering sending a weekly update of user-issues to the -dev mailing list
<br/>Jul 23 20:17:45 &lt;avenj&gt;	there's just too much there
<br/>Jul 23 20:18:00 &lt;avenj&gt;	but there haven't been any actual decisions on the scope of the docs project with regards to top level project documentation
<br/>Jul 23 20:18:14 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: the -dev ml update is a good idea for sure
<br/>Jul 23 20:18:15 &lt;Brandy&gt;	g2boojum: will do - which reminds me, I'm looking at contributing to a newbie's guide to Gentoo
<br/>Jul 23 20:18:38 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	avenj: I didn't mean they need to review it; but they need to make sure there's a link to that faq from the general faq (or some other way of easily finding it)
<br/>Jul 23 20:18:44 &lt;avenj&gt;	g2boojum: i agree
<br/>Jul 23 20:18:50 &lt;seemant&gt;	avenj: agreed -- where possible we should try and co-ordinate with them so they know about the docs we're bringing online
<br/>Jul 23 20:19:10 &lt;avenj&gt;	i think we should perhaps add a section to the main docs page for top-level project documentation (links to it, that is)
<br/>Jul 23 20:19:34 &lt;seemant&gt;	which reminds me
<br/>Jul 23 20:19:50 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: any ETA on when the project pages will be click-to'able?
<br/>Jul 23 20:20:19 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: pauldv is putting together an index.  as soon as that is done, we'll link to that page from the front page.
<br/>Jul 23 20:20:34 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: oh excellent! thanks 
<br/>Jul 23 20:20:36 &lt;klieber&gt;	in the managers meeting, pauldv was talking about mon. or tues.
<br/>Jul 23 20:20:40 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	avenj: I sort-of agree.  Our top-level projects aren't necessarily intuitive for our users, so I'd prefer a more comprehensive solution.
<br/>Jul 23 20:20:53 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	avenj: For the short-term, though, a link would be great!
<br/>Jul 23 20:21:11 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: that's great news
<br/>Jul 23 20:21:54 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: GWN?
<br/>Jul 23 20:22:41 &lt;Brandy&gt;	Where are we on announcing Dev-Rel to the userbase? I feel that User-Rel at least could be
<br/>Jul 23 20:22:55 &lt;tberman&gt;	im wondering if someone is going to look at a potential site redesign for gentoo, imo, and its just my opinion, but the site design is pretty antiquated and difficult to deal with
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:06 &lt;klieber&gt;	tberman: yes
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:22 &lt;klieber&gt;	tberman: if you know of any professional graphic designers willing to donate their services, please have them contact me
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:25 &lt;Stuart&gt;	tberman: site looks fine, but the site map needs fixing
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:28 &lt;tberman&gt;	klieber: i do
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:35 &lt;klieber&gt;	tberman: cool -- have them drop me a line
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:41 &lt;seemant&gt;	anyone object to us announcing User Rel on next week's GWN then?
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:47 &lt;klieber&gt;	tberman: daniel also knows a few people as I understand it
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:49 &lt;tberman&gt;	klieber: he can be a pain to deal with sometimes, and a bit slow, but he will work for free, and on whatever i tell him too
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:54 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	fine w/ me
<br/>Jul 23 20:23:54 &lt;klieber&gt;	lol
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:05 &lt;tberman&gt;	klieber: it will be easier for you to interface with him through me, trust me
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:09 &lt;spyderous&gt;	sounds like a brother
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:16 &lt;seemant&gt;	avenj: klieber: spyderous: ?
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:17 &lt;tberman&gt;	spyderous: gah, no
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:20 &lt;klieber&gt;	tberman: ok -- we can talk more later.
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:20 &lt;seemant&gt;	coredumb: ?
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:22 &lt;tberman&gt;	klieber: k
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:23 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: no objections
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:28 &lt;spyderous&gt;	sounds good
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:30 &lt;coredumb&gt;	seemant: ok
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:30 &lt;tberman&gt;	klieber: the issue for me is less graphics and more general interface
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:41 &lt;avenj&gt;	seemant: no objections
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:51 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: as you say, so it will be
<br/>Jul 23 20:24:59 &lt;Brandy&gt;	excellent :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:25:05 &lt;seemant&gt;	thanks everyone
<br/>Jul 23 20:25:12 &lt;seemant&gt;	sorry to have let it run over as it did
<br/>Jul 23 20:25:15 &lt;Brandy&gt;	before we go
<br/>Jul 23 20:25:27 &lt;Brandy&gt;	can we set up a set time for meetings?
<br/>Jul 23 20:25:44 &lt;seemant&gt;	may as well, since we're all here
<br/>Jul 23 20:26:06 &lt;seemant&gt;	the more restrictive people seem to be: coredumb &amp; Brandy, possibly g2boojum and klieber
<br/>Jul 23 20:26:21 &lt;klieber&gt;	this time works well for me.
<br/>Jul 23 20:26:23 &lt;coredumb&gt;	i'm not restrictive, just tired.. :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:26:38 &lt;seemant&gt;	coredumb: well, I'd like to be able to accommodate something more convenient for you
<br/>Jul 23 20:26:46 &lt;Brandy&gt;	coredumb: what's the local time?
<br/>Jul 23 20:26:53 &lt;coredumb&gt;	03:27
<br/>Jul 23 20:27:04 &lt;Brandy&gt;	coredumb: ouch
<br/>Jul 23 20:27:27 &lt;spyderous&gt;	how about 2100 utc tuesdays?
<br/>Jul 23 20:27:48 &lt;klieber&gt;	can't do that, personally
<br/>Jul 23 20:27:54 &lt;klieber&gt;	but I'm not sure how much time I'm going to have.
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:01 &lt;klieber&gt;	so if that works for everyone else, please go ahead with it.
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:02 &lt;tberman&gt;	god with this utc stuff, i cant figure it out
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:08 &lt;coredumb&gt;	hmm
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:18 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	tberman: date -u
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:19 &lt;tberman&gt;	5pm tuesdays eastern?
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:31 &lt;tberman&gt;	g2boojum: yes, i know that, but then i have to still do the basic math ;p
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:44 &lt;coredumb&gt;	midnight here
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:48 &lt;spyderous&gt;	klieber: when can you?
<br/>Jul 23 20:28:59 &lt;coredumb&gt;	any chance to have that on monday?
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:16 &lt;seemant&gt;	coredumb: manager's meeting is 1800 UTC on monday
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:25 &lt;spyderous&gt;	how about 2000 utc monday 
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:26 &lt;klieber&gt;	spyderous: really, about all I can do is in the 0200 - 0400 UTC timeframe  in weekly meetings.
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:27 &lt;seemant&gt;	coredumb: we can do it before or after I suppose
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:33 *	Stuart waves goodnight
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:35 &lt;spyderous&gt;	oh, bummer klieber
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:37 &lt;--	Stuart (~stuart@myrddraal.demon.co.uk) has left #gentoo-devrel
<br/>Jul 23 20:29:47 &lt;klieber&gt;	like I said -- you shouldn't schedule around me.
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:02 &lt;coredumb&gt;	hm, is friday night (here) ok?
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:04 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: eh? 02 - 04?
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:11 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: aren't you in bed by then
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:11 &lt;seemant&gt;	?
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:15 &lt;tberman&gt;	seemant: UTC
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:18 &lt;klieber&gt;	UTC? no
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:21 &lt;coredumb&gt;	23UTC friday???
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:27 &lt;coredumb&gt;	er
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:27 &lt;spyderous&gt;	that's...10p-12a eastern?
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:29 &lt;klieber&gt;	that's 8pm - 10pm my time
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:30 &lt;coredumb&gt;	tooooooooo many ? :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:30:53 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: oh I thought it was 10-midnight your time
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:06 &lt;klieber&gt;	oops -- I was wrong.
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:11 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	coredumb: My wife rather likes spending Friday nights w/ her husband.
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:18 &lt;klieber&gt;	so I can do most things 2300 - 0100 UTC
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:21 *	klieber hugs date -u
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:28 &lt;seemant&gt;	g2boojum: cool, then when she's gone you can meet with us :P
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:36 &lt;tberman&gt;	hah
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:40 &lt;spyderous&gt;	could work wednesday
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:40 &lt;spyderous&gt;	but way too late for coredumb, maybe Brandy too
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:40 &lt;coredumb&gt;	hm
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:43 &lt;coredumb&gt;	thursdays?
<br/>Jul 23 20:31:56 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: what's your free times?
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:00 &lt;seemant&gt;	coredumb: what are yours?
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:02 &lt;Brandy&gt;	spyderous: what time is too late for me?
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:09 &lt;spyderous&gt;	Brandy: i have no idea.
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:19 &lt;seemant&gt;	does 2300-0100 UTC on any weekday suit anyone?
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:19 &lt;coredumb&gt;	seemant: depends if i work or not :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:28 &lt;Brandy&gt;	I'm ok 2300-0100 UTC Sundays and Wednesdays
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:36 &lt;g2boojum&gt;	seemant: works for me.
<br/>Jul 23 20:32:46 &lt;coredumb&gt;	but i never work fridays, saturdays and usually not tuesdays
<br/>Jul 23 20:33:05 &lt;spyderous&gt;	that's bad monday, and open at 2400 wednesday
<br/>Jul 23 20:33:06 &lt;coredumb&gt;	seemant: too late usually
<br/>Jul 23 20:33:52 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: lunchish hour for you on another day?
<br/>Jul 23 20:34:27 &lt;seemant&gt;	Brandy: can you go earlier on any particular day?
<br/>Jul 23 20:34:36 &lt;klieber&gt;	seemant: I can't do any more daily meetings -- one a week is about all I can work into my schedule.
<br/>Jul 23 20:34:45 &lt;klieber&gt;	&quot;daily&quot; meaning during the workday for me
<br/>Jul 23 20:34:49 &lt;seemant&gt;	klieber: understood
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:00 &lt;Brandy&gt;	seemant: I could do 2100 - 2300 UTC any weekday
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:09 &lt;tberman&gt;	why dont you guys try a during the weekend meeting
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:28 &lt;coredumb&gt;	tberman: i'm trying.. :)
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:30 &lt;spyderous&gt;	weekends are bad except sunday from about..2300 on
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:30 &lt;tberman&gt;	like a early afternoon sunday, would be late sunday for coredumb, and early sunday for brandy (i think)
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:43 &lt;seemant&gt;	early monday for her
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:51 &lt;klieber&gt;	sunday is wife day for me.
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:54 &lt;tberman&gt;	oh
<br/>Jul 23 20:35:57 &lt;klieber&gt;	sunday evenings are generally OK.
<br/>Jul 23 20:36:05 &lt;tberman&gt;	see, im so eastern time zone centric, i forgot about the IDL
<br/>Jul 23 20:36:33 &lt;seemant&gt;	honestly seems like wedesday 2300 UTC is the most convenient :/
<br/>Jul 23 20:36:36 &lt;coredumb&gt;	hrhr, here we work on sundays..
<br/>Jul 23 20:38:15 &lt;seemant&gt;	we can try to do a lot more discussion on the mail alias though
<br/>Jul 23 20:38:32 &lt;coredumb&gt;	hm, yea
<br/>

</body>
</section>
</chapter>
</mainpage>
