20:00  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to open the 15 Aug 2010 Gentoo Foundation Inc monthly trustees meeting
20:00 <@robbat2|na> hi all
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll Call
20:00 <@dabbott> here
20:00 <@robbat2|na> yo
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, quantumsummers_  ?
20:00 <@quantumsummers_> present
20:01 -!- quantumsummers_ is now known as quantumsummers
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum.  If someone on the right contenent could give josh a call ...  
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> We willstart anyway
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm logging
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 3 Old Business
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Invention Network sent us a reminder.
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> From memory, that was with SFLC ... quantumsummers is that right ?
20:03 <@quantumsummers> fslc was working with OIN in some capacity
20:03 <@quantumsummers> *sflc that is
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I thought we had them checking out the agreement ? 
20:04 <@quantumsummers> That is correct.
20:04 <@quantumsummers> I was told that SFLC was developing some docs for OIN\
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Is that on the agenda for your chat with SFLC next week ?
20:04 <@quantumsummers> Yes, that is one point, certainly
20:04 <@quantumsummers> I have it on our list to revisit OIN for November's meeting
20:04 <@quantumsummers> as well.
20:05 <@dabbott> second
20:05 <@robbat2|na> November? what happened to sept/oct?
20:06 <@quantumsummers> We decided at the meeting in June I believe
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, we agreed to defer it while we go feedback from SFLC
20:06 <@quantumsummers> I am happy to bump that to sooner
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> got*
20:06 <@robbat2|na> once you've got response from SFLC, assuming it's positive, we can probably vote at the next meeting?
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, lets wait until after your appointment with SFLC
20:07 <@quantumsummers> fine. as I recall, the main benefit was political, at least at that point in June
20:07  * NeddySeagoon recalls lawyers saying ... on the other hand ... 
20:07 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: you seem more interested, care to expand on why?
20:08 <@robbat2|na> i've met Keith Bergelt on two occasions now
20:09 <@robbat2|na> i didn't specifically introduce myself as a Gentoo trustee, but the in-person discussions and presentations seem to be entirely positive
20:09 <@robbat2|na> we have little to lose or gain politically from joining in my opinion
20:09 <@robbat2|na> they have a lot to gain from us
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> The agreement seems mostly harmless
20:09 <@quantumsummers> your impressions seem positive. 
20:10 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: what do you see them gaining from gentoo?
20:10 <@quantumsummers> given that we have no patents
20:10 <@quantumsummers> albeit, I suspect portage to be a patentable invention.
20:11 <@quantumsummers> (not that I would advocate for such action)
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> not now its published its not
20:11 <@robbat2|na> more large distributions to claim as members
20:11 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: ok.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Ok ... lets move on. We cannot decide today
20:12 <@quantumsummers> ok, so on Tuesday I will discuss this.
20:12 <@quantumsummers> report to follow
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks
20:12 <@quantumsummers> np
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Gentoo Tango Icon Pacho Ramos
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, suggested a CC licence last meeting. I've read it and it looks good to me
20:13 <@quantumsummers> I like CC
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Has everyone else read it and can we vote ?
20:13 <@dabbott> yes
20:13 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: what CC derivative?
20:13 <@quantumsummers> if any
20:14 <@robbat2|na> CCPL-Sampling
20:14 <@quantumsummers> ok, very good
20:14 <@robbat2|na> CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0 in our tree
20:14 <@quantumsummers> Motion: Approve use of Gentoo Logo via license CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0 for Tango Icon project.
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, seconded
20:15 <@quantumsummers> thank you
20:15 <@robbat2|na> this is broader than just the tango icon 
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> vote please
20:15 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: shall I amend the motion to accomodate other projects/uses?
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, please explain before we vote
20:15 <@robbat2|na> unless there are objections, yes, please amend
20:16 <@robbat2|na> the license applies to the logo in general
20:16 <@quantumsummers> Motion: Approve general use of Gentoo Logo via license CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0
20:16 <@quantumsummers> oops.
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:16 <@quantumsummers> Motion: Approve general use of Gentoo "g" Logo via license CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> seconded
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote pleasse
20:16 <@robbat2|na> aye
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
20:16 <@quantumsummers> aye
20:16 <@dabbott> aye
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> we will come back to Updating Registration in NM   if tsunam shows.  Did anyone call him ?
20:18 <@quantumsummers> I can, if no one else has already
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  SFLC Update - we know thats next week
20:18 <@robbat2|na> i haven't
20:18  * quantumsummers goes to grab ze phone
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Accountant Team Progress ...
20:19 <@quantumsummers> one moment, please
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> sure
20:21 <@quantumsummers> Ok, Josh is at the doctor.
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> That sounds bad, on a Sunday
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks for making the call quantumsummers 
20:21 <@quantumsummers> yes, he sounded ok, but wasn't real chipper
20:22 <@quantumsummers> So, re: NM reg. I signed & overnighted the material awhile back, he has not signed & forwarded as of today.
20:22 <@quantumsummers> we have until November, fyi.
20:22 <@quantumsummers> but sooner the better
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> OK, we can remind tsunam when hes better
20:22 <@quantumsummers> yes.
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Accountant Team Progress ...
20:23 <@quantumsummers> ok, re: Accountants: I have assembled the dossiers for them, once I have a tad bit of info from sflc I will release it to the team
20:24 <@quantumsummers> I will say that I have already acccomplished some of what I had hoped out of them, however, there is plenty left
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> hey its good its a team ... as in > 1
20:24 <@quantumsummers> yes, that is true.
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> I guess that covers 501(c)(3) registration status  too ?
20:24 <@quantumsummers> reminds me, I will schedule a conf call with them as well
20:24 <@quantumsummers> more or less, yes. we are waiting on sflc, and a bit of budget work
20:25 <@quantumsummers> beyond that we are in good shape.
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> good
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> Knowledge Management TODO List ...
20:25 <@quantumsummers> its there. I have started playing with a mongodb instance for the email archive
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:26 <@quantumsummers> might be able to integrate that into the main system once its ironed out
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Markos Chandras (hwoarang) ... Request for developer certificate
20:26 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: I would like to know if you have any ideas on mysql text indexing (via sphinx, etc) at a later date
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you were actioned with this in your absence last meeting :)
20:26 <@quantumsummers> that is done
20:27 <@quantumsummers> sent via snail mail && email pdf
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks
20:27 <@quantumsummers> np.
20:27 <@quantumsummers> note
20:27 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: ++
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott your turn
20:27 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers, ok, later on, it's not hard
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I have considered setting something up with roll call to automate these
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Consultants Page Review
20:27 <@quantumsummers> just a sec please
20:28 <@quantumsummers> perhaps I should ask Josh, but I have accrued a bit of  tab on behalf of gentoo recently. how shall I handle that?
20:28 <@quantumsummers> submit an invoice?
20:28 <@quantumsummers> its not pressing, however I would like my accounting to be in shape, etc, etc
20:29 <@robbat2|na> invoice the alias, and josh can send you a cheque or paypal probably
20:29 <@robbat2|na> that's how we've done it for infra before
20:29 <@quantumsummers> ok, sounds good
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yes please, we are a business, like any other business.  We need the paper trail to appease auditors
20:29 <@quantumsummers> that is all from me then. 
20:29 <@dabbott> Is it tracked with a bug
20:29 <@quantumsummers> ok, will do
20:30 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers, it's probably just incidental for paperwork and sending said paperwork to josh right?
20:30 <@robbat2|na> not an actual funding request ahead of time
20:30 <@quantumsummers> that and the print/mail of dev cert
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, petty cash
20:30 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: correct, these were incidental expenses
20:31 <@robbat2|na> yup, just invoice then, that's what we've done for infra. large stuff gets a funding request ahead of time
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> We don't need a bug - invoice to the alias is fine
20:31 <@quantumsummers> ok, its <$50 total
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, your companies page looks good.  Is thee only the one company to go on it ?
20:32 <@dabbott> If the Consultants page is OK I can add it to our links http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/#doc_chap5
20:32 <@dabbott> yes so far liiking to add more
20:33 <@dabbott> *looking
20:33 <@robbat2|na> should we ask on -core if anybody else wants to be put on?
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Maybe put out a news item about it 
20:33 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: I would like to place a link, if everyone thinks that is acceptable
20:33 <@quantumsummers> news item is a good idea
20:33 <@quantumsummers> -core as well
20:33 <@robbat2|na> +1 on putting the page up as well
20:34 <@dabbott> ok I will do both
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, fine by me as long as you declare your interest should it affect a vote
20:34 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: indeed
20:34 <@robbat2|na> i'll declare right now that i've done Gentoo consulting in the past
20:34 <@quantumsummers> as have I albeit small in comparison ;)
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, give it a week for resoponses to news/core then make the page live
20:35 <@dabbott> I will run by the requests as I get them by email
20:35 <@dabbott> for review
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll declare that I would, if the opportunity were to arise
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, Larry Graphics Contest ...
20:36 <@dabbott> Starting on Aug 1 need more judges, have one a3li 
20:37 <@dabbott> robbat2|na: is the artwork@g.o still working?
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds like another news item then, or something on dev-announce
20:37 <@robbat2|na> dabbott, yes
20:38 <@dabbott> I added myself to the alias sent an email but did not recieve anything
20:39 <@dabbott> I will look around may have been spammed
20:39 <@robbat2|na> dabbott, when was that so I can look in the logs later?
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, anything else on judges ?
20:39 <@dabbott> about 2 weeks ago
20:39 <@dabbott> no thats it
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 4 Bugs ... moved to t@g.o
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 5 New Business
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Electronics Book Gentoo Logo Usage (Jordan Force)
20:41 <@quantumsummers> seems this would be covered by the earlier motion.
20:42 <@robbat2|na> one sec, it might not
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Hmm.  I don't see the use of our logo in a book as commercial use.  The book would be almost unchanged it it were removed
20:42 <@robbat2|na> the Sampling license is intended for derivitive works
20:42 <@quantumsummers> ah yes, I recall.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> so it should be considered non-commercial use
20:42 <@robbat2|na> the book is not a derivative work
20:42 <@quantumsummers> hmm, this may become tricky.
20:43 <@dabbott> do we need to add anything to the logo usage guideling page?
20:43 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: we will, most likely
20:43 <@robbat2|na> does anybody know how he wants to use the logo in the book?
20:43 <@quantumsummers> its in the email
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> All we have is the email
20:43 <@robbat2|na> "I am writing a book about electronics. I am going to use the logo in the book, is this okay?"
20:44 <@robbat2|na> that's really brief
20:44 <@quantumsummers> ah, my mistake
20:44 <@quantumsummers> perhaps we ought ask him for a bit of info
20:44 <@dabbott> yes
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> we need to get more detail
20:44 <@robbat2|na> dabbott, i'll update the logo usage page for the sampling license
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> Will I respond ?
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, thanks
20:45 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: please do, if you don't mind
20:45 <@dabbott> j19force93@gmail.com
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Oops - I have the original mail
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> next - libbash license (GSOC) Petteri R?ty
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> Betelgeuse, is in the channel
20:46 <+Betelgeuse> NeddySeagoon: It's not the license selection I wanted input on.
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> Betelgeuse, sorry, thats my mistake
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> Betelgeuse, please summarise
20:47 <+Betelgeuse> I proposed we assign copyright to the Foundation.
20:47 <@robbat2|na> I believe that Betelgeuse wants to know if we should hold the copyright for it, or if we leave it as the student
20:47 <@robbat2|na> sorry, was typing that at the same time
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, thats one for the lawyers. International copyright is a mess
20:48 <+Betelgeuse> The student is from US.
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> that makes it easier
20:49 <@quantumsummers> in that case, its rather wimple
20:49 <@quantumsummers> lol, simple
20:49 <@robbat2|na> Betelgeuse, has anybody else other than the student contributed code to it yet?
20:49 <@quantumsummers> I have an assignment doc we could use
20:49 <+Betelgeuse> robbat2|na: I have small snippets but don't consider enough to constitute a work.
20:50 <@robbat2|na> yes, I meant non-trivial contributions
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> Betelgeuse, anybody else ?
20:50 <+Betelgeuse> NeddySeagoon: no
20:50 <+Betelgeuse> Basically I anticipate request for a more liberal license but ideally would start with GPL-2
20:50 <@robbat2|na> ok, then it's an easy case, since it's entirely inside the US. probably just use quantumsummers's existing doc
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> What is the advantage to Gentoo of having copyright ?
20:51 <@robbat2|na> so assign copyright to Gentoo Foundation, and license with GPL-2/LGPL-2
20:51 <@quantumsummers> should be fine, then. Betelgeuse I will email you for the necessary info.
20:52 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, specifically we can pursue copyright infringement of libbash without the student having to retain his own legal counsel
20:52 <+Betelgeuse> and relicense even if the student is not reachable
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> I suppose it allows us to relicense if we want to too
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> ok.  lets use quantumsummers doc.  quantumsummers can you post the document to the alias too please
20:53 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes, of course
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> I have to catch up on US forms
20:54 <+Betelgeuse> quantumsummers: Does your doc quarantee we will always use an OSI approved license?
20:54 <@quantumsummers> Betelgeuse: not at present
20:54 <@quantumsummers> it can however, with just a slight mod
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Betelgeuse quantumsummers:fix the doc outside of the meeting please
20:54 <@quantumsummers> kk
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Developer Certificate (pdf) - Theo Chatzimichos
20:55 <@quantumsummers> I will create it.
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 6 Membership Applications
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Alex Alexander - Gentoo Dev
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote aye
20:56 <@dabbott> yes
20:56 <@quantumsummers> aye
20:56 <@robbat2|na> aye
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Shall I write a wee ditty ?
20:56 <@dabbott> please do
20:56 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes please :)
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 8 Date of Next Meeting - 19th Sep 2010 19:00 UTC
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> That works for me
20:57 <@dabbott> fine here
20:57 <@quantumsummers> fine here
20:57 <@robbat2|na> +1 for me
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> that was easy
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 9 Any other business ... 
20:58 <@robbat2|na> it's only summer that's busy :-) September gets slower
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  ?
20:58 <@robbat2|na> none from me
20:58 <@dabbott> Current bugs are in the topic if you want to review
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, lets try doing it on the list this month
20:58 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: nope. nothing beyond the convo with legal
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> nothing here 
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, AoB ?
20:59 <@dabbott> AoB ??
20:59 <@robbat2|na> "Any other Business"
20:59 <@dabbott> lol
20:59 <@dabbott> no
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 10 Responsibilities
21:00 <@dabbott> I will do the motions
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log and write the two emails
21:00 <@dabbott> I think just one ?
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> wired and more info about logo useage
21:00 <@dabbott> ok 2
21:01 <@quantumsummers> gentlemen, its been a pleasure. talk to you all very soon. Cheers.
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 11 Open Floor
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> later quantumsummers 
21:01 <@dabbott> ty quantumsummers 
21:01 <@robbat2|na> bug 329509, it's CC'd for trustees, but I think we can just hand it over to the licenses team while the upstreams work it out
21:01 < willikins> robbat2|na: https://bugs.gentoo.org/329509 "dev-libs/shared-desktop-ontologies is a licensing mess"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; luke-jr+gentoobugs@utopios.org:kde@g.o
21:02  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to close the meeting
