20:00  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to bring the meeting to order and calls roll call
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, tsunam robbat2|na quantumsummers  ?
20:00 <@robbat2|na> hi
20:00 <@dabbott> here, please refresh agenda page
20:00 <@quantumsummers> hello
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ok
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> missing tsunam ... does someone more local then me want to give him a call please
20:02 <@robbat2|na> i'll ring him
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> It looks like I'm logging as my logger is here
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> ta
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 3 Old Business
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Invention Network ... last I heard the lawyers were looking at this
20:03 < tsunam> I'm here
20:03 < tsunam> sorry
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> hi tsunam 
20:03 <@dabbott> hi tsunam 
20:03 < tsunam> thought it was next week for some reason =/
20:03 -!- mode/#gentoo-trustees [+o tsunam] by NeddySeagoon
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> its the 3rd Sunday in the month 1900 UTC
20:04 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: yeah was thinking next sunday was the 3rd
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, how are the lawyers getting on with OIN ?
20:05 <@quantumsummers> sec ...
20:06 <@quantumsummers> its basically the same as the last time we discussed in March. Its not of immediate benefit, for we have no patents, however there is certainly no harm.
20:07 <@robbat2|na> so we just need to decide to join or not now?
20:07 <@quantumsummers> pretty much
20:07 <@quantumsummers> does it fit with gentoo that we are a member now.
20:07 <@quantumsummers> that is the question
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Lets join, we can always leave if we don't like it.   I don't see us having any patents any time soon
20:08 <@quantumsummers> another thing to note, there is no rush to join either
20:09 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: you have the floor, if you wish, call a vote.
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> we need a decision to get it off the agenda ... is anything we do patentable or is copyright adequate protection ?  Patents are expensive to take out
20:09 <@dabbott> motion join Open Invention Network yes no later
20:10 <@tsunam> honestly, I'm against software patents so I'd tend to avoid patents
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> seconded
20:10 <@robbat2|na> I don't think anything we've done as a Foundation is patentable. what some individual developers have done, maybe
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, me too but they are a fact of life, in the USA anyway
20:10 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: aye :(
20:11 <@tsunam> my vote is no
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> lets ask it another way.  IF we had something to patent, would we fund it ?
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't think we would
20:12 <@tsunam> its a good question
20:12 <@robbat2|na> my vote is later
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm with robbat2|na today
20:12  * quantumsummers abstaines
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> thats a no and two laters ... dabbott quantumsummers ?
20:13 <@dabbott> later also, we can add it back to the agenda when wanted
20:13 <@robbat2|na> by later, revisit in 6 months
20:13 <@quantumsummers> +1
20:13 <@robbat2|na> 1 no, 3 later, 1 abstain
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> I think we have a later decison... Add to Novembers agenda
20:14 <@quantumsummers> I'll add that to the todo, just in case, revisit in 6 months
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Treasuers Report ... from the AGM
20:15 <@tsunam> not prepared as I thought it was next weekend :(
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, post it to the alias by next weekend please - we can discuss and vote on it there
20:16 <@tsunam> *nods*
20:16 <@tsunam> will do
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Cafepress Revenue ?   is that the same ?
20:16 <@tsunam> still the same
20:17 <@tsunam> have not talked to anyone about those revenue's
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, and Updating Registration in NM ?
20:17 <@tsunam> will get that done next week
20:17 -!- Ronis_BR [~quassel@201-74-131-55-sj.cpe.vivax.com.br] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
20:17 <@tsunam> then file the annual beginning of july
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, you have a busy week :)
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam yep
20:17 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: typically that's work that does that
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers SFLC Update
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, :)
20:19 <@quantumsummers> so, there are a few things I need from you guys to file. There are a couple of tasks on docs too. Once that is done & the budget is approved we file.
20:19 <@quantumsummers> I've added them all to the todo
20:19 <@quantumsummers> remove the foundation stuff referencing 501c6 and dev rewards
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, OK, I need to read the TODO then
20:19 <@quantumsummers> short paragraph detailing time table of events for foundation, in terms of what went wrong with previous mis-management, etc -- for sflc-Karen
20:19 <@quantumsummers> Board Member Bios employment, schools, experience with NFPs, avg. hours per week worked on Gentoo see http://www.softwarefreedom.org/about/team/ for an example
20:20 <@quantumsummers> this last one is something that tsunam & robbat2|na can work on: summary financials for past 3 years, if possible for entire history
20:20 <@quantumsummers> though I will note that I have most of the history, from tsunam
20:21 <@tsunam> we have funding history from the 3rd quarter of 2005..earliest we can do
20:21 <@quantumsummers> yep
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, even for before 2008 ?
20:21 <@robbat2|na> by summary, you mean final summary, or what level of breakouts?
20:21 <@quantumsummers> this will be a very simple report
20:22 <@quantumsummers> we have small income from a few sources, we have expeditures
20:22 <@quantumsummers> nothing fancy. I can help
20:22 <@quantumsummers> I have examples
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> that will help
20:23 <@quantumsummers> it would be handy to have a centralized accounting of the files we have pertaining to this specifically
20:23 <@tsunam> *nods*
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Certified Public Accountant (Quotes) ... if you are done with SFLC
20:23 <@quantumsummers> not done. sflc will explain the situation, which will be aided by one of our tasks
20:24 <@quantumsummers> this one >> short paragraph detailing time table of events for foundation, in terms of what went wrong with previous mis-management, etc -- for sflc-Karen
20:24 <@quantumsummers> so we make our case to the feds, and bada bing we're a charity
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I'll do that - it looks like everyone else is busy ... when do you need it for ?
20:25 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: that would be great. as soon as you can manage
20:25 <@quantumsummers> 3 or 4 weeks ok?
20:26 <@dabbott> quantumsummers, where is the TODO list ?
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I better set an example ... I'll aim for next Sat/Sun 
20:26 <@quantumsummers> if we can just get a draft started we can all pitch in a bit I think
20:26 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: thank you sir. look forward to reading
20:26 <@quantumsummers> dabbott its on coalesce
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, if its too long, you can edit it down
20:27 <@quantumsummers> not me!!
20:27 <@quantumsummers> this will go to sflc
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> or Karen ..
20:27 <@quantumsummers> she wants to have a basis in historical fact to aid the argument
20:27 <@tsunam> *nods*
20:27 <@tsunam> makes sense
20:27 <@quantumsummers> so it doesn't need to be perfect prose
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> I understand.
20:28  * quantumsummers needs to go afk for 3 mins
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> OK CPA quotes
20:28 <@tsunam> she really needs the history to form a cohesive argument in otherwords
20:28 <@quantumsummers> sorry, wife, roasting chicken...
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, Rotating Sidebar can you do a status update while quantumsummers is afk ?
20:29 <@robbat2|na> hopefully going live this coming week
20:29 <@robbat2|na> on one of the new atoms
20:29 <@tsunam> I've got another 15-20 minutes or so (looking at a house at 1)
20:29 <@tsunam> robbat2|na: good news =)
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> is it on a test box somewhere ?
20:30 <@robbat2|na> not accessible atm
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Cash Sponsors Policy - no change.  quantumsummers was going to run it by SFLC 
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott Larry The Cow Graphics Contest
20:31 -!- quantumsummers|c [~msummers@173-22-132-8.client.mchsi.com] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:31 <@dabbott> Waiting on Gentoo Store outcome
20:31 <@quantumsummers> its going to be a bit longer than 3 mins, 
20:31 <@quantumsummers> can you guys skip the cpa & come back to it 
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, whats the issue with the Store ?
20:31 <@quantumsummers> I'll read along on >
20:31 < quantumsummers|c> this box
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, we already did
20:32 < quantumsummers|c> kk
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Open Bugs
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> bug  285520
20:34 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285520 "Copyright year in file headers should be updated when file is edited."; Portage Development, Repoman; NEW; neddyseagoon@g.o:dev-portage@g.o
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> it looks like this bug needs to be reassiged to a group than can fix it
20:35 <@robbat2|na> we dealt with that one already
20:35 <@robbat2|na> see the last comment on it
20:35 <@robbat2|na> per a prior meeting
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> Should it be closed ?
20:36 <@robbat2|na> no, because echangelog still isn't changing the stuff in files/ yet
20:36 <@robbat2|na> but it just needs somebody to update echangelog
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> who is that somebody ?
20:36 <@robbat2|na> dev-portage team maintains gentoolkit*
20:36 <@robbat2|na> and thus echangelog
20:37 <@robbat2|na> I say we just take trustees off the CC
20:37 <@robbat2|na> and leave it to be implemented
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't see them on the bug - am I missing something ?
20:37 <@robbat2|na> it's on the CC list
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll take us off the CC:
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> errr ... I can't buzie won't let me log in
20:39 <@robbat2|na> i'll do it
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> ta
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 293657
20:40 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/293657 "domains gentoo.cc"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; jodok@batlogg.com:infra-bugs@g.o
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> looks like that done too
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 33740
20:41 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/33740 "Reply address and fax-phone number missing"; Gentoo Infrastructure, Forums; NEW; bugs-gentoo@kotiaho.net:trustees@g.o
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> Should we run that past SFLC ?  It won't get fixed until we move to phpbb 3 anyway]
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 285549
20:42 <@robbat2|na> i think we can just turn off the COPPA option entirely
20:42 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549 "Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; belendax@gmail.com:trustees@g.o
20:43 <@robbat2|na> that was waiting for legal input
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na does Canada have a COPPA equivelent ?
20:43 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, none
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, did 285549 get to SFLC ?
20:44 <@robbat2|na> i don't know, that's quantumsummers territory
20:44 <@robbat2|na> but my comment there was after a prior meeting
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 296766
20:45 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, is this next weekend ?
20:45 <@tsunam> yes
20:46 <@tsunam> I'll confirm everyone's information next week as well
20:46 <@tsunam> so look for that email
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, OK
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 302542
20:46 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/302542 "domain gentoo.org.il"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; spatz@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:46 <@tsunam> <--is now out sorry guys :(. I'll review the rest of the logs when I get back later this afternoon
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we want to collect and maintain domains like this ?
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, have fun looking at houses
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, dabbott ^^
20:48 <@dabbott> its up to infra, I see no need for it
20:48 <@robbat2|na> that's really something that we need to come up with a policy on
20:48 <@robbat2|na> because it's a mishmash
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, we need to fund an ever increasing set of registrations
20:49 <@robbat2|na> as trustees, we've previously approved domains, as long as they didn't require crazy costs
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm not keen to take on that commitment if we will not use the domains
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, why ?
20:49 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, i'm just saying what's been done before
20:50 <@robbat2|na> not that I agree with it, but I see the question coming up more and more
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> If we have a use, or potential use ... no problem but we should drop domains we will not use
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we want a vote on the list ?
20:51 <@robbat2|na> probably wise
20:51 <@robbat2|na> ask for use cases as well
20:51 <@dabbott> do we need a form, and then take a vote once the form is submitted
20:51 <@robbat2|na> because the only one I know of is redirecting to a specific language variant of the website
20:52  * NeddySeagoon Actioned to propose motion on the list 
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 304853
20:53 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; NEW; mihel@hotbox.ru:trustees@g.o
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, how about a post on the forums to try to get users interested ?
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> in the graphics ...
20:54 <@dabbott> we will need to get control of the store as musikc is retiring afaik
20:54 <@dabbott> I wanted to add the winning graphics to the store
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, you don't have the passwords ?
20:54 <@dabbott> no
20:54 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, we didn't get an answer re COPPA above, I just noted that Canada doesn't have any COPPA-like laws
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, musikc is on OFTC
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, we need quantumsummers to tell us if its got to the SFLC
20:55  * quantumsummers|c is back, sorry
20:56 < quantumsummers|c> the ir channel?
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, did the COPPA bug get to the SFLC ?
20:56 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, could you talk to her I really don't know her that well
20:56 < quantumsummers|c> I thnk so
20:56 <@robbat2|na> -ir channel and is COPPA needed?
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, sure
20:56 < quantumsummers|c> I emailed
20:57 < quantumsummers|c> haven'theard back about those, will follow uo on  mon
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks
20:57 < quantumsummers|c> sorry for dropping that one (two)
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 296492    	
20:57 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296492 ""Agenda" links are wrong"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; ASSI; tove@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, you volunteered :)
20:58 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, refresh your list
20:58 <@robbat2|na> i just updated the whiteboard on everything we've talked about here
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, ok ... thats all the bugs
20:59 <@robbat2|na> no, you missed locked bug 291404
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, I can't see it, as I can't get logged in
21:00 <@dabbott> I have not seen him around lately
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 291404
21:00 <@robbat2|na> it's locked. willikins will not divulge it
21:00 <@robbat2|na> I think we can probably close it for now
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
21:00 <@robbat2|na> unless userrel has any further for it
21:00 <@robbat2|na> i'll just ask them to CC us again if they need us
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Certified Public Accountant (Quotes) ... back to your stuff
21:01 <@quantumsummers> ok. 
21:02 <@quantumsummers> heard back from the cpa recommended by sclf, was more than the quote from local by 400-500
21:02 <@quantumsummers> way to oexpensive
21:02 <@quantumsummers> its like these peeps think we are huge or something
21:02 <@quantumsummers> either that or its just fscking expensive
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> yep ... did you explain our size to the SLFC peeps ?
21:03 <@quantumsummers> now. I do know we can get filing assistance for ~$1000 per year
21:03 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes. its paypal that messes with things. they appears to base things on the number of transactions
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> heh - and we get spam transactions.  Lets stick with local then
21:04 <@quantumsummers> In general, and if we can produce our own quarterlys, we should be ok without full cpa support
21:04 <@quantumsummers> just use one for filing
21:05 <@quantumsummers> if we make <$25K/year we just have to send in a post card
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we do our own quarterlys ?
21:05 <@quantumsummers> Yes, tsunam already produces them.
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> that sounds like it will do for a year or two
21:06 <@robbat2|na> I think we need to get better at producing them, but that should be good
21:06 <@quantumsummers> just might need a few tweaks, and we need to archive the raw data
21:06  * robbat2|na has an idea in that regard, but not enough time
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need a motion on the CPA to engage right now ?
21:06 <@robbat2|na> archive and make sure we keep accurate totals
21:07 <@quantumsummers> yes
21:07 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I do not think so
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, we can keep it in the agenda
21:07 <@quantumsummers> I would like more time to find better support. Fall back to local in the event of needing more assistance
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok. Don't pay for it out of your own funds though
21:08 <@dabbott> or a community member that can help out
21:08 <@quantumsummers> community member would be great
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, that would be good
21:09 <@dabbott> we need a better way of asking for help
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we get a help wanted on the front page ?
21:09 <@quantumsummers> suspect that is possible
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, as you are in PR, can you look at the ^^
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> that*
21:10 <@dabbott> sure quantumsummers do you want to come up with something I can xml it etc
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, 501(c)(3) registration status
21:10 <@quantumsummers> I already talked about 501c3 earlier. the tasks, etc
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok
21:11 <@dabbott> quantumsummers, do you want the bios mailed to you
21:11 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: hmm, sure
21:11 <@quantumsummers> dabbott that will be fine
21:11 <@quantumsummers> or just put it in the todo
21:11 <@dabbott> ok
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> We should do most of this stuff in email ... meetings are already too long. Then just bring them here to air decisons
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> do we want to move this stuff to mail now ?
21:13 <@quantumsummers> Item 7 I think we should decide now
21:14 <@quantumsummers> the rest is fine over mail
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, dabbott ^^
21:14 <@dabbott> New Business is fine by email
21:14 <@robbat2|na> i think all of 5 we can do pretty quick, i'll give a run through them quickly here if there are no objections
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> ok.
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, on you go
21:15 <@robbat2|na> 1. amazon referral fees: nice idea, but we have nowhere to put it in Gentoo, not without modifying upstream code
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> thats out then
21:15 <@dabbott> +1
21:16 <@robbat2|na> 2. education request for US forces: ship a drive with snapshots and all the distfiles for those snapshots
21:16 <@quantumsummers> I have recommended a path for this
21:16 <@robbat2|na> 3. Special Project Support/Equipment Request: I think it might need some editing, but +1 on the idea
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> It doesn't matter that its for US forces.  Its a bandwidth impoverished user group
21:17 <@quantumsummers> I like the idea of doing things like this
21:17 <@robbat2|na> 4. Donation Thank You Email: +10 on the idea, but move to list for related discussion of sponsor acknowledgement
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
21:17 <@robbat2|na> 5. Increase Foundation Involvement: move to list
21:18 <@robbat2|na> 6. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA): open a bug, forward to legal
21:18 <@dabbott> I can do Donation Thank You Emails
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, we have a snail mail address
21:18 <@robbat2|na> dabbott, open it on the mailing list, I've got a related discussion, but it's NOT short
21:18 <@dabbott> ok
21:19 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, is that it ?
21:20 <@robbat2|na> that's all of it
21:20 -!- quantumsummers|c [~msummers@173-22-132-8.client.mchsi.com] has quit [Ping timeout: 265 seconds]
21:20 <@robbat2|na> from new business anyway
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> 6. Membership Applications none
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> 7. Advertising Requests
21:20 <@quantumsummers> Motion: deny request
21:20 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers, for #2/bandwidth-improvished groups, maybe put your idea/path on the list too
21:20 <@robbat2|na> seconded
21:20 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: ok
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Pokerlistings.com ...
21:21 <@quantumsummers> I vote no to pokerlistings
21:21 <@dabbott> no also
21:21 <@robbat2|na> vote: denied, unless they can show that they use Gentoo in a significent way
21:21 <@NeddySeagoon> Does not meet the 'large users' qualification. 
21:21 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote no
21:21 <@dabbott> robbat2|na, said I missed 2 items
21:22 <@robbat2|na> dabbott, ah, right, one sec, after this vote
21:22 <@NeddySeagoon> we have 4 Nos ... moion to deny carried
21:22 <@NeddySeagoon> motion*
21:23 <@robbat2|na> ok, the two missing items:
21:23 <@robbat2|na> 1. may 4th mail forwarded from pr@, about sponsorship from webhosting search
21:23 <@robbat2|na> I think we should see what they are offering, hardware or cash
21:23 <@robbat2|na> and proceed as before from there
21:24 <@robbat2|na> i'll take that mail
21:24 <@quantumsummers> +1
21:24 <@dabbott> +1
21:24 <@NeddySeagoon> +1
21:24 <@robbat2|na> 2. mail from openclothes.org re logo usage on merchandise
21:25 <@NeddySeagoon> geoip openclothes.org
21:25 <@quantumsummers> We need to know if they are legit first. Then, if they are its a neat idea to consider
21:25 <@NeddySeagoon> we need to know where they are too
21:26 <@robbat2|na> ok, who wants to talk to them? somebody who did previous merchandise stuff?
21:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Created On:06-Aug-2007 01:13:03 UTC
21:26 <@quantumsummers> my plate is a tad full atm ...
21:27 <@dabbott> robbat2|na, forward me the email i will talk to them
21:27 <@quantumsummers> thank you dabbott
21:27 <@robbat2|na> dabbott, it was sent to trustees@ on may 13th
21:27 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks dabbott 
21:27 <@robbat2|na> Message-ID: <AANLkTilat0gccMPNgwxbDRtBbB1t_jdziEpkjTq_Tjd5@mail.gmail.com>
21:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 1 Date of Next Meeting - 20th Jun 2010 19:00 UTC ..
21:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats the 3rd Sunday in June tsunam 
21:28 <@quantumsummers> dabbott, please ask them to show their irs status
21:28 <@quantumsummers> we need to validate them completely
21:29 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, +1, i'll be here
21:29 <@quantumsummers> if they have a temporary letter of 501c3 status from the IRS, we can consider things
21:29 <@quantumsummers> +1 on the next meeting date
21:29 <@dabbott> next meeting date is fine here
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 9  Any other business ... 
21:30 <@robbat2|na> none
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> None from me
21:30 <@dabbott> nooone here
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  ?
21:30 <@quantumsummers> none, save to say, please check the todo list so we can get those last few items knocked out
21:30 <@robbat2|na> remind us via email please?
21:31 <@dabbott> https://www.icoalesce.com/projects/gentoo/
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
21:31 <@robbat2|na> or IRC, relentlessly ;-)
21:31 <@quantumsummers> ok
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 10 Responsibilities 
21:31 <@quantumsummers> summary financials for past 3 years, if possible for entire history
21:31 <@quantumsummers> remove the foundation stuff referencing 501c6 and dev rewards
21:31 <@quantumsummers> short paragraph detailing time table of events for foundation, in terms of what went wrong with previous mis-management, etc -- for sflc-Karen
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log
21:31 <@dabbott> I will do the motions
21:32 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, I think you also offered the only email too
21:32 <@robbat2|na> afk for 5, door
21:32 <@dabbott> yep
21:32 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 11  Open Floor
21:33 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, can you add the link to the log http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes/2010/index.xml
21:33 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, yep
21:34  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel and declares the meeting closed
