Jul 18 15:00:51 *	NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to call the meeting to order ... roll call
Jul 18 15:01:11 <tsunam>	here
Jul 18 15:01:15 <_robbat2|irssi>	on an htc dream, in a noisy coffeeshop in ottawa :-)
Jul 18 15:01:22 <dabbott>	here
Jul 18 15:01:39 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_,   ?
Jul 18 15:01:54 <_robbat2|irssi>	dns seems borked badly, so i've got ssh, but no web access
Jul 18 15:02:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets start - we have a quorum
Jul 18 15:02:08 <tsunam>	_robbat2|irssi: its something
Jul 18 15:02:30 <NeddySeagoon>	my logger isn't here, so I'm not logging today
Jul 18 15:02:42 <tsunam>	mine is
Jul 18 15:02:55 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, can you post the log then please
Jul 18 15:02:57 <dabbott>	I should be also
Jul 18 15:03:12 <tsunam>	if dabbott needs it I'll forward it to the alias
Jul 18 15:03:23 <_robbat2|irssi>	fyi, i have to leave in 45mins to get my flight
Jul 18 15:03:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 3 tsunam ... Treasuers Report
Jul 18 15:03:50 <tsunam>	I'd posted it to the group, roy you had some concern's but I didn't really hear anything else from anyone
Jul 18 15:04:08 <tsunam>	this was similar to last years report if I recall
Jul 18 15:04:20 <dabbott>	I put it here http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/2010-treasurer-report.xml
Jul 18 15:05:15 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, probably because I'm English and expected to see a balance sheet but if everyone else is happy, I'm happy too
Jul 18 15:06:03 <_robbat2|irssi>	i can't check the link atm, so i'll go w/ the majority
Jul 18 15:06:20 <dabbott>	motion to accept
Jul 18 15:06:31 *	NeddySeagoon waits for someone to propose a motion to adopt the treasuers report
Jul 18 15:06:37 <NeddySeagoon>	seconded
Jul 18 15:06:42 <tsunam>	aye
Jul 18 15:06:47 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Jul 18 15:06:56 <dabbott>	yes
Jul 18 15:07:04 <_robbat2|irssi>	aye per majority
Jul 18 15:07:11 <NeddySeagoon>	motion carried
Jul 18 15:07:19 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks tsunam 
Jul 18 15:07:39 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, Cafepress Revenue
Jul 18 15:08:10 <tsunam>	I've changed the cafepress stuff to send checks to me now, however I need to contact cafepress about previous checks that went to grant
Jul 18 15:08:12 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Good link. I get the .co.uk site, so I may buy stuff there
Jul 18 15:08:31 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, maybe contact grant too
Jul 18 15:08:40 <tsunam>	I should
Jul 18 15:08:44 <tsunam>	and will do that
Jul 18 15:09:00 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Jul 18 15:09:02 <tsunam>	currently the checks (only real option) will come to my address that I'll then deposit
Jul 18 15:09:41 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, on the subject of money, what happened to our credit/debit card application ?
Jul 18 15:10:24 <tsunam>	It was declined. Related to "amount of debt" to me at the time of the application. Doesn't matter that it was immediately paid off (when I bought the servers and a few other things)
Jul 18 15:10:32 <tsunam>	at least that's the way it appeared
Jul 18 15:10:41 <tsunam>	I've not reapplied
Jul 18 15:10:44 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, ok, thanks
Jul 18 15:10:49 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, Updating Registration in NM
Jul 18 15:11:10 <tsunam>	annual report is due, I'll be working with quantumsummers_ this week to get it sent off
Jul 18 15:11:20 <tsunam>	there's the standard 10 dollar us charge for the filing
Jul 18 15:11:36 <NeddySeagoon>	that will fix our registration too ?
Jul 18 15:11:39 <tsunam>	yes
Jul 18 15:11:53 <NeddySeagoon>	bargin! all for $10
Jul 18 15:12:19 <tsunam>	especially as its due by the end of the month :)
Jul 18 15:12:24 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers isn't here, we will come back to his bit if he shows up
Jul 18 15:12:53 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi,  Rotating Sidebar 
Jul 18 15:13:40 <_robbat2|irssi>	it's done and live
Jul 18 15:14:13 <tsunam>	nice :)
Jul 18 15:14:16 <dabbott>	:) works great, have you had many comments ?
Jul 18 15:14:21 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, thanks - I'll need to look more closely
Jul 18 15:14:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Request to use Gentoo tango icon ...
Jul 18 15:14:58 <_robbat2|irssi>	none, just some sponsor's promosing me new/updated ads
Jul 18 15:15:20 <_robbat2|irssi>	the integration is practically seamless
Jul 18 15:15:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Pacho Ramos ...
Jul 18 15:15:49 <dabbott>	ICON I would like to find a way to give our blessings I think it is included in x11-themes/gnome-colors-themes-5.5.1
Jul 18 15:16:25 <_robbat2|irssi>	i don't see any problems w/ it
Jul 18 15:16:33 <NeddySeagoon>	We should be able to use a CC licence
Jul 18 15:16:41 <_robbat2|irssi>	what license is that pkg under?
Jul 18 15:16:52 <tsunam>	i believe that was the issue
Jul 18 15:17:33 <dabbott>	LICENSE="GPL-2 public-domain"
Jul 18 15:17:37 <NeddySeagoon>	CC attribution, no derivative works should work to protect our interests
Jul 18 15:18:02 <tsunam>	hmm
Jul 18 15:18:11 <_robbat2|irssi>	ah the no deriv works bites here
Jul 18 15:18:28 <tsunam>	yeah
Jul 18 15:18:37 <_robbat2|irssi>	as icons are exactly that
Jul 18 15:18:41 <NeddySeagoon>	weirdedout, we can't have derivitive works including our mark
Jul 18 15:19:32 <NeddySeagoon>	we allow the icon set ... thats fine but not further derivatives
Jul 18 15:20:16 <tsunam>	the derivatives would be hard to track honestly :/
Jul 18 15:20:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Any licence is hard to track ... we cannot put our trademark in the public domain
Jul 18 15:21:06 <tsunam>	*nods*
Jul 18 15:21:13 <NeddySeagoon>	unless ...
Jul 18 15:21:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Can we public domain images below a certain size ?
Jul 18 15:21:35 <_robbat2|irssi>	i have an idea too..
Jul 18 15:21:44 <tsunam>	NeddySeagoon: that's too much of a gray area
Jul 18 15:21:49 <_robbat2|irssi>	CCPL-Sampling license
Jul 18 15:22:01 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, what that ?
Jul 18 15:22:04 <tsunam>	_robbat2|irssi: ccpl- sampling?
Jul 18 15:22:11 <tsunam>	i'm not familar with that license
Jul 18 15:22:42 <_robbat2|irssi>	blocks commercial derivatives, while allowing others as long as they are strongly transformative
Jul 18 15:23:07 <tsunam>	hmm interesting
Jul 18 15:23:09 <_robbat2|irssi>	It's one of the lesser known CC licenses
Jul 18 15:23:20 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets take it to the list, _robbat2|irssi only has a tiny keyboard ... sounds promising
Jul 18 15:23:31 <tsunam>	I'd like to read over that license before voting for such
Jul 18 15:23:37 <NeddySeagoon>	me too
Jul 18 15:23:45 <NeddySeagoon>	Next item
Jul 18 15:23:48 <_robbat2|irssi>	yup, maybe get more input too
Jul 18 15:23:52 <_robbat2|irssi>	onelast bit
Jul 18 15:23:59 <NeddySeagoon>	[Tango-artists] Request for an icon
Jul 18 15:24:25 <dabbott>	^ same item
Jul 18 15:24:27 <_robbat2|irssi>	if we have a list of our license constraints, i can ask a friend that works for CC org
Jul 18 15:24:42 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, sounds good
Jul 18 15:24:48 <_robbat2|irssi>	 /item
Jul 18 15:25:01 <NeddySeagoon>	Trustee Bugs
Jul 18 15:25:18 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 33740
Jul 18 15:25:20 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/33740 "Reply address and fax-phone number missing"; Gentoo Infrastructure, Forums; ASSI; bugs-gentoo@kotiaho.net:trustees@g.o
Jul 18 15:25:37 <_robbat2|irssi>	was pending legal input
Jul 18 15:25:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Nothing will happen until the forums are upgraded anyway
Jul 18 15:25:53 <tsunam>	*nods*
Jul 18 15:26:06 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 208353    	
Jul 18 15:26:08 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/208353 "retire: Grant Goodyear (g2boojum)"; Gentoo Developers/Staff, Retirement; NEW; g2boojum@g.o:retirement@g.o
Jul 18 15:26:17 <NeddySeagoon>	Why are we on this one ?
Jul 18 15:26:37 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 285549
Jul 18 15:26:39 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549 "Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; belendax@gmail.com:trustees@g.o
Jul 18 15:26:40 <_robbat2|irssi>	i don't know
Jul 18 15:26:48 <NeddySeagoon>	legal input
Jul 18 15:27:14 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll take us off  Grants bug
Jul 18 15:27:31 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 296766
Jul 18 15:27:33 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jul 18 15:27:39 <NeddySeagoon>	discussed already
Jul 18 15:28:05 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 304853 
Jul 18 15:28:07 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; ASSI; mihel@hotbox.ru:trustees@g.o
Jul 18 15:28:19 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott,  ?
Jul 18 15:28:21 <tsunam>	has the contest been run?
Jul 18 15:28:33 <dabbott>	tsunam: do you have access to the store? I will run the contest
Jul 18 15:28:40 <tsunam>	dabbott: I do
Jul 18 15:28:58 <dabbott>	ok :) right after the screenshot contest ++
Jul 18 15:29:06 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Jul 18 15:29:18 <tsunam>	I need to send information to the rest of the trustee's about access to the store
Jul 18 15:29:26 <_robbat2|irssi>	thx
Jul 18 15:29:31 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 326701    	
Jul 18 15:29:32 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/326701 "Gentoo Official Store add trustees to cafepress@gentoo.org"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; dabbott@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jul 18 15:29:54 <tsunam>	I'll change that this week hopefully
Jul 18 15:30:03 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, thanks
Jul 18 15:30:10 <NeddySeagoon>	thats ll the bugs
Jul 18 15:30:14 <_robbat2|irssi>	assign to me in status
Jul 18 15:30:30 <_robbat2|irssi>	i'll update the alias when i'm home
Jul 18 15:30:37 <_robbat2|irssi>	in 10 hours
Jul 18 15:30:40 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, ok
Jul 18 15:30:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 5 New Business
Jul 18 15:31:13 <NeddySeagoon>	New Sponsor Axant
Jul 18 15:31:39 <_robbat2|irssi>	was that the .it or the .ru?
Jul 18 15:31:50 <NeddySeagoon>	the site is in .it
Jul 18 15:32:24 <_robbat2|irssi>	no objections to them from me, since there is a dev
Jul 18 15:32:35 <tsunam>	*nods*
Jul 18 15:32:36 <dabbott>	same here
Jul 18 15:32:53 <NeddySeagoon>	As a policy statement, I'm in favour of giving coverage to companies offering paid for Gentoo support but stopping shourt of calling it offcial
Jul 18 15:33:13 <NeddySeagoon>	We cannot test the quality of the support, so cannot endorse it
Jul 18 15:33:16 <tsunam>	I'd concur
Jul 18 15:33:17 <_robbat2|irssi>	with preference to those employing devs?
Jul 18 15:33:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Well, paid support gives companies a warm fuzzy feeling
Jul 18 15:34:30 <tsunam>	I'd be hesitant to suggest any preferential listing
Jul 18 15:34:42 <NeddySeagoon>	maybe two catagories ... those with devs on the payrol, those without ?
Jul 18 15:35:05 <tsunam>	who would maintain such a list? As people do move on to other positions
Jul 18 15:35:15 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't have any strong feelings
Jul 18 15:35:30 <dabbott>	We could add another chapter to the sponsors page for commercial support not endorsed 
Jul 18 15:35:45 <_robbat2|irssi>	below the rest, sure
Jul 18 15:35:47 <NeddySeagoon>	Leave the groupings out then
Jul 18 15:36:00 <tsunam>	that would be preferable to me then
Jul 18 15:36:09 <_robbat2|irssi>	or would a seperate page be better?
Jul 18 15:36:10 <dabbott>	yes below the rest and look to cleanup the top part
Jul 18 15:36:20 <tsunam>	I think a seperate page would be better in my opinion
Jul 18 15:36:23 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, inverspath have a listing on support.  I think they are the only ones
Jul 18 15:36:49 <dabbott>	seperate page will work fine
Jul 18 15:36:52 <_robbat2|irssi>	they used to be an infra-sponsor too
Jul 18 15:36:56 <NeddySeagoon>	I prefer a new page
Jul 18 15:37:16 <tsunam>	with NeddySeagoon's message that these are companies offering support for gentoo, however we don't guarentee their level's of support
Jul 18 15:37:37 <_robbat2|irssi>	+1 on that warning/preface
Jul 18 15:37:39 <tsunam>	bah netbook :( typing on it isn't easy :/
Jul 18 15:38:05 <dabbott>	I will put somthing together and send to the list, a new page for review
Jul 18 15:38:12 <_robbat2|irssi>	hey, my kb is worse :-p
Jul 18 15:38:14 <tsunam>	thank you dabbott 
Jul 18 15:38:15 <_robbat2|irssi>	ok
Jul 18 15:38:23 <NeddySeagoon>	Summary ... new page for companies offering paid support for Gentoo with our rider that we do not underwrite the quality of support.  Cavet Emptor
Jul 18 15:38:31 <_robbat2|irssi>	+1
Jul 18 15:38:55 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: thanks
Jul 18 15:39:21 <NeddySeagoon>	We have the two requests .it and .ru  
Jul 18 15:39:25 <_robbat2|irssi>	anything more critical, t-5 min, for me
Jul 18 15:39:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Will we accept both ?
Jul 18 15:39:52 <_robbat2|irssi>	i want to talk to the .ru more
Jul 18 15:39:57 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jul 18 15:40:06 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we accept the .it then
Jul 18 15:40:07 <tsunam>	the .it I don't have an issue with accepting now
Jul 18 15:40:08 <_robbat2|irssi>	the .it i've known about for a bit
Jul 18 15:40:40 <NeddySeagoon>	motion to accept the .it request for isting
Jul 18 15:40:46 <dabbott>	accept .it defer .ru until _robbat2|irssi checks them out :)
Jul 18 15:40:54 <dabbott>	aye
Jul 18 15:41:01 <_robbat2|irssi>	aye
Jul 18 15:41:01 <tsunam>	aye
Jul 18 15:41:07 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, ?
Jul 18 15:41:16 <tsunam>	he aready said yes :_P
Jul 18 15:41:27 <NeddySeagoon>	Sorry.
Jul 18 15:41:37 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets skip to membership
Jul 18 15:41:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Anthony G. Basile and Maciej Mrozowski  both devs
Jul 18 15:42:01 <dabbott>	yes
Jul 18 15:42:03 <tsunam>	aye to both
Jul 18 15:42:04 <NeddySeagoon>	All in favou
Jul 18 15:42:08 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Jul 18 15:42:11 <_robbat2|irssi>	aye to both
Jul 18 15:42:19 <NeddySeagoon>	Carried
Jul 18 15:42:53 <NeddySeagoon>	Markos Chandras (hwoarang) Request for developer certificate
Jul 18 15:43:10 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, usually does these
Jul 18 15:43:14 <_robbat2|irssi>	aye, same as prior certs
Jul 18 15:43:37 <NeddySeagoon>	action on quantumsummers_ then, since hes not here
Jul 18 15:43:42 <tsunam>	*nods*
Jul 18 15:43:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 8 Date of Next Meeting - 15th Aug 2010 19:00 UTC
Jul 18 15:44:02 <_robbat2|irssi>	t-1 for me
Jul 18 15:44:04 <tsunam>	works for me
Jul 18 15:44:08 <NeddySeagoon>	wfm
Jul 18 15:44:11 <dabbott>	fine here
Jul 18 15:44:17 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Jul 18 15:44:20 <_robbat2|irssi>	aye, i think my calendar is free
Jul 18 15:44:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ... _robbat2|irssi   ?
Jul 18 15:44:32 <_robbat2|irssi>	none
Jul 18 15:44:42 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, 
Jul 18 15:44:51 <_robbat2|irssi>	apologies for missing the last meeting
Jul 18 15:44:52 <tsunam>	no other business from me
Jul 18 15:44:59 <NeddySeagoon>	nor from me
Jul 18 15:45:00 <dabbott>	did you want to do the bugs on the mailing list
Jul 18 15:45:15 <_robbat2|irssi>	sure
Jul 18 15:45:27 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, will post the log
Jul 18 15:45:41 <dabbott>	if something needs more attention we can add it to the agenda
Jul 18 15:45:54 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, can you do the motions please ?
Jul 18 15:46:09 <dabbott>	yes, the log also while I am at it
Jul 18 15:46:12 *	NeddySeagoon will write to our new members
Jul 18 15:46:21 <tsunam>	dabbott: ah thanks then :)
Jul 18 15:46:26 <_robbat2|irssi>	ok i'm out of here
Jul 18 15:46:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda item 11 # Open Floor
Jul 18 15:46:33 <dabbott>	thanks _robbat2|irssi 
Jul 18 15:46:33 <_robbat2|irssi>	travel safely all
Jul 18 15:46:36 <NeddySeagoon>	bye _robbat2|irssi 
Jul 18 15:46:43 <tsunam>	bye _robbat2|irssi have a safe flight
Jul 18 15:46:52 <_robbat2|irssi>	gone
Jul 18 15:47:46 <tsunam>	seems no one has any things for the open floor
Jul 18 15:47:51 *	NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to close the meeting
