18:55  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to open the meeting
18:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call
18:55  * quantumsummers_ is present
18:55 <@dabbott> here
18:55 <@NeddySeagoon> bloodnoc, is here, so I'm logging
18:56 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2 tsunam_ ?
18:56 <@robbat2> pong
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Four - thats a full house for today
18:56 <@quantumsummers_> nice
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 3 Old Business
18:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Registration New Mexico 
18:57 <@quantumsummers_> all done and up to date
18:57 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam_, posted the paperwork and we have been renewed
18:58 <@NeddySeagoon> miranda.dev.gentoo.org funding ...    We have a new donor do we still need this ?
18:58 <@robbat2> dropping it for now, we picked up a somewhat lesser box at a new sponsor
18:58 <@robbat2> and it's getting setup
18:58 <@NeddySeagoon> ok - is the miranda workload being spread around ?
18:59 <@dabbott> great I will remove it for dec
18:59 <@robbat2> yup, hopefully to two boxes
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, does that mean we have nothing at GNI any more ?
18:59 <@robbat2> specifically, to kookaburra.g.o and vulture.g.o (previously the GSoC box)
18:59 <@robbat2> there's still two boxes running there, but only because they haven't turned the lights off yet
19:00 <@robbat2> no essential services remain on them
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, should we write to them and tell them ?  and drop their ad at the same time?
19:00 <@robbat2> i've tried to contact them, but been unsuccessful
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Does anyone in infra still work there ?
19:01 <@robbat2> nobody
19:01 <@robbat2> and they've retained none of the old GNi people that I was in contact with
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Just run shutdown -h now  :)
19:01 <@quantumsummers_> should we power them down?
19:02 <@robbat2> when it's more final, i'll zero the disks on my way out of them
19:02 <@quantumsummers_> we do not need them sending us an invoice 
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, sounds like a plan
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers - your bit  SFLC Questions (Software Freedom Law Center) 
19:03 <@quantumsummers_> ok, most of what I had to say was in the email 
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_ ok - can you post a link for posterity please
19:03 <@quantumsummers_> the contributor agreement is in the works, I should be able to finish it on Monday
19:04 <@quantumsummers_> I can recount the important bits here, it was not a public email
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> please
19:05 <@quantumsummers_> so the libbash bit, that will require a contributor agreement.
19:05 <@quantumsummers_> I have started an adaptation of the apache foundation version, also used by django foundation and others.
19:06 <@quantumsummers_> Its a good one, sflc approved in general. Once I have the draft complete I will send it off to them for comments, but I do not expect much as its fairly standard
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> IS that much work - remove apache, put back Gentoo ... or is it more ?
19:07 <@quantumsummers_> pretty much find & replace, some language needs changing for the license change from Apache to gplv2
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
19:07 <@quantumsummers_> I have a good idea what to do there, its not a big deal
19:07 <@quantumsummers_> should take <20mins
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Invention Network  ...
19:08 <@quantumsummers_> OIN, I think this is still the same situation as before. Its mostly political. That said, I see no harm in joining or not joining.
19:08 <@quantumsummers_> as far as I can see, the sflc has not completed their exposition for OIN, so nothing new their ether
19:08 <@quantumsummers_> its an interesting development with the upcoming sale of Novel
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> I know most of us are ambivalent on this but I think its worth a vote.  I'm slightly in favour of a strong  FOSS (anti) patents organistaion
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Mozilla have joined
19:09 <@quantumsummers_> shall we have a motion to join?
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> yes please
19:10 <@dabbott> Motion: Join Open Invention Network
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> seconded
19:10 <@quantumsummers_> Please vote
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> as a licencee
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> ... yes
19:11 <@dabbott> I see no harm, yes for me
19:11 <@quantumsummers_> I vote to join as a licensee.
19:11 <@robbat2> aye
19:11 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2: thoughts?
19:12 <@quantumsummers_> ok, motion passes. Who wishes to contact them?
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, dabbott as a licencee ?
19:12 <@dabbott> yes
19:12 <@robbat2> yes
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll write to them - as long as my main box doesn't go down again
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Accountant Team Progress
19:14 <@quantumsummers_> Ok, NeddySeagoon, I still need to email them to let them know you will work with them on things
19:14 <@quantumsummers_> I have not had a chance to do it yet. On my Monday list
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, sooner rather than later, so they don't loose interest
19:15 <@quantumsummers_> I understand, and agree.
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2  DNS / BIND progress
19:17 <@robbat2> idl0r and I are working on it, just trying to figure out one thing re having a better audit trail at the moment, if that fails, we'll just use nsupdate directly, and have the same level of auditability as ultradns
19:17 <@robbat2> relatedly, can I have a hand with writing the letter to UltraDNS
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, you want to write and I'll review or the otherway around ?
19:18 <@robbat2> i'll write and you can edit+review
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, sure
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, Larry Graphics Contest Update
19:19 <@dabbott> We had 2 entries, both are graphic artists +1
19:19 <@dabbott> The graphics needs to be redone or new created to be put on t-shirts to follow cafepress's way of doing it
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, joint winners and two T-shirts ?
19:19 <@dabbott> The contest was for 3 and 3 t-shirts but now 2 and 3 shirts
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> seems good
19:20 <@dabbott> Alex (a3li) is going to work with them in a few weeks once he finishes a project he is currently busy with.
19:20 <@dabbott> Both artists are willing to do what it takes to help out.
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm looking for some gear to wear to FOSDEM too
19:21 <@dabbott> Once we have their graphics on a shirt available on cafepress I told them we "Trustees" would honor the contest rules and gladly give them their 3 free t-shirts
19:21 <@quantumsummers_> should we have them do a contrib agreement?
19:21 <@dabbott> quantumsummers_: sure just let me know the details
19:21 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, I think that was part of the rules of the competion
19:21 <@dabbott> There is enough money currently in the cafepress account to cover this expense.
19:22 <@quantumsummers_> ok I think the lic would be creative commons, I can do that one when I do the gplv2 version
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, Did tsunam send you some cheques  ?
19:22 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: yes I have checks
19:22 <@quantumsummers_> and cheques
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
19:22 <@dabbott> :)
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> two nations divided by a common language :)
19:23 <@quantumsummers_> :)
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Bugs
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Funding Request  Jeremy Olexa
19:24 <@quantumsummers_> +1 from me
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> The link is broken for me
19:24 <@robbat2> +1 from me, if he wants a bigger drive, the cost differential is tiny
19:25 <@quantumsummers_> yeah, I agree with robbat2, there are 1TB drives for $90
19:25 <@robbat2> the cost on the drive he wanted has dropped to $34.99 now I see
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> I've found the bug ... +1 from me
19:25 <@dabbott> +1 
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Approved.  Do we want to reimbuse him or buy the drive and have it shipped to him
19:26 <@quantumsummers_> ok, so I will reimburse darkside1 when he provides a digital receipt. That work for everyone
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, yes
19:26 <@quantumsummers_> or I can buy it & have it shipped (reimburse myself)
19:26 <@quantumsummers_> either way is fine.
19:26 <@quantumsummers_> darkside1: what would you like to do?
19:26 <@robbat2> no objections to telling him to get a bigger one?
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, talk to  darkside1, agree between yourselves
19:27 <@robbat2> he's not around that much on weekends
19:27 <@dabbott> do we need a motion?
19:27 <@quantumsummers_> ok. a bigger one is fine.
19:27 <@quantumsummers_> just lets spend less than $100
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> A bigger one is ok by me.  You get a lot of code ona 1Tb drive
19:27 <@quantumsummers_> dabbott I think we are fine without a formal motion
19:28 <@dabbott> ok
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> agreed to $100 limit
19:28 <@robbat2> the 1TB version of what he wanted is $49.99 right now
19:28 <@robbat2> http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16822148433
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> he could just about get a raid1 set for $100 then :)
19:29 <@quantumsummers_> ok, so lets just give him a budget of $100 and let him figure it out. Sound ok?
19:29 <@robbat2> sure
19:29 <@dabbott> yes 
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> carried
19:30 <@quantumsummers_> ok, I'll email him here in a sec (CC trustees@)
19:30 <@robbat2> next bug was corrections to corp filing
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Corrections to corporation filing Bug 296766 - this can progress now we are otherwise up to date with NM
19:30 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> I haven't heard from tsunam - can anyone else do this ?
19:33 <@quantumsummers_> was this not updated with our last filing?
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> No.  Its two separate filings
19:34 <@dabbott> I don't know the procedure, does the agent contact NMPRC
19:35 <@quantumsummers_> Ok, I'll handle it. I should be able to do this. If I need Joshua's sig, I can mail it to him
19:35 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets check out tsunam.  If he is back in December, he can do it then
19:35 <@quantumsummers_> I'll call the state of NM on Monday, see what we need to do.
19:36 <@quantumsummers_> no biggie
19:36 <@dabbott> thanks quantumsummers_ 
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we want a new 'Contact outside NM' ?
19:36  * quantumsummers_ adds another to the Monday list :)
19:36 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: we should have one
19:36  * NeddySeagoon adds another Monday to quantumsummers_ week
19:36 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: if onlythat were possible
19:37 <@quantumsummers_> Further, I would be happy to put my business address on there 
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote for an address in the USA - but you can use mine if you wish
19:37 <@dabbott> that would be good ^^^
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, That would be good
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
19:37 <@quantumsummers_> Ok. I will see what needs to be done there.
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, thank you 
19:37 <@quantumsummers_> my pleasure
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business Hardened Projects' Documentation
19:39 <@NeddySeagoon> whats the issue ?
19:39 <@quantumsummers_> ok, so there are some older docs that appear to have no license 
19:39 <@quantumsummers_> we are updating the docs for the hardened proj
19:40 <@quantumsummers_> and we would like some guidance on how to proceed w.r.t. using potentially non-licensed content.
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> We can't relicence studd without the copyright holders agreement - that would be everyone on the authors list
19:40 <@quantumsummers_> OR can we assume that since its no www.g.o that it is licensed under CC-SA
19:41 <@NeddySeagoon> studd -> stuff
19:41 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2 had some thoughts here, I think
19:41 <@dabbott> s/no/on
19:41 <@NeddySeagoon> There are various versions of CC-SA 
19:42 <@robbat2> my thoughts were that the site already had a blanket CC-SA
19:42 <@quantumsummers_> ok, that is what I thought too.
19:42 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, was that in pace when the docs were published or does it post date the docs ... 
19:42 <@robbat2> hmm, that's a good question
19:43 <@robbat2> one sec, seeing if I can dig up where
19:43 <@robbat2> *when
19:43 <@NeddySeagoon> If all the authors will respond to email, the cleanest way to to attempt contact with a proposal
19:44 <@quantumsummers_> some docs go back to 2005
19:45 <@dabbott> did solar start the project?
19:46 <@robbat2> bug 212021 mentions some the issue too
19:46 < willikins> robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/212021 "Consider switching to Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0"; Documentation, New Documentation; RESO, CANT; grahl@g.o:trustees@g.o
19:47 <@robbat2> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/gdp/doc/doc-policy.xml covers items done by GDP
19:47 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, that was to relicence under a later version of the CA licence
19:49 <@NeddySeagoon> Legal Issues.  Every document published by the Gentoo Documentation Project must be licensed by the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License. 
19:49 <@NeddySeagoon> That can only apply from the time that phrase was added to the doc
19:49 <@robbat2> that phase is at least as old as: Thu Aug 26 16:16:04 2004 UTC
19:50 <@robbat2> the file was moved to that location then
19:50 <@quantumsummers_> in that case we are good afaict
19:50 <@robbat2> IFF the documents were by the GDP team
19:50 <@NeddySeagoon> So it clearly applies to docs dated after  Aug 26 16:16:04 2004 UTC.
19:50 <@robbat2> quantumsummers_, which hardened files?
19:51 <@quantumsummers_> solar is an author on a bunch, and pappy too
19:51 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, ask them
19:51 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2: I'll have to put together a list of those in question
19:51 <@robbat2> etdyn.xml is dated aug 2003
19:51 <@robbat2> so I need to go further back
19:52 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we take that outside the meeting please
19:52 <@robbat2> ok
19:52 <@quantumsummers_> ok, give me some time to get some info together
19:52 <@quantumsummers_> I have the guy working on it now
19:53 <@NeddySeagoon> Internship Confirmation
19:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Is this any different to dev certificate - but for a different role ?
19:55 <@quantumsummers_> hmm, there is paperwork to sign.
19:55 <@quantumsummers_> which I am happy doing.
19:55 <@quantumsummers_> also, iirc, the mentor will have to sign off
19:55 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, thanks ... do you need a third monday in your week?
19:56 <@dabbott> from his email;
19:56 <@quantumsummers_> perhaps :D
19:56 <@dabbott> I asked the person who handles internships on my university and a
19:56 <@dabbott> certificate (like the one you sent previously) and a internship log (in
19:56 <@dabbott> English, signed by Alex or Petteri) will be enough.
19:56 <@quantumsummers_> ah, great.
19:56 <@quantumsummers_> So, he needs a certificate of completion?
19:57 <@NeddySeagoon> That gets rid of the translation issue
19:57 <@quantumsummers_> I am thinking about writing a webapp that will let us auto-create these certs.
19:57 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, for one or two a year, is it worth the effor ?
19:57 <@quantumsummers_> should be easy enough with ... reportlab & python win1
19:57 <@NeddySeagoon> +t
19:57 <@quantumsummers_> if its easy, then yes. :)
19:58 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
19:58 <@quantumsummers_> not a high priority
19:58 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: he has alot of free time on Mondays :)
19:58 <@quantumsummers_> but, we could use it to give devs the ability to create their own certs with ldap data
19:58 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
19:58 <@quantumsummers_> iif robbat2 would let me access that data :P
19:59 <@NeddySeagoon> No SW design during meetings :)
19:59 <@quantumsummers_> anyway, could be a fun little side pri=oj
19:59 <@robbat2> the public fraction of the data is all in userinfo.xml
19:59 <@quantumsummers_> err, proj ... yeah. please proceed
19:59 <@robbat2> RESO OFFTOPIC
19:59 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
20:00 <@robbat2> so quantumsummers_ is handling that
20:00 <@robbat2> next we have membership applications
20:00 <@quantumsummers_> +1 to the new devs
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Membership Applications Eray Aslan and Matt Turner.  These were voted on the ml but my main box died, so I didn;t write the emails nor fix the ACL here
20:01 <@robbat2> aye for both of them
20:01 <@dabbott> yes to both
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll write the emails now by system is up.
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 8  Date of Next Meeting - 19th Dec 2010 19:00 UTC
20:02 <@quantumsummers_> sorry to say, but that is not going to work as I had hoped
20:02 <@quantumsummers_> for me anyway
20:02 <@quantumsummers_> how about the week prior?
20:02 <@dabbott> fine here
20:03 <@robbat2> checking my cal
20:03 <@dabbott> 12
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> 12th Dec?  Thats the day after my wedding anaversary ... it will probably be ok
20:03 <@quantumsummers_> during the week would be fine too, for me anyway
20:03 <@robbat2> fine for me on the 12th
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets make it 12 Dec at the usual time
20:04 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: that sounds like it may be trouble :D
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, after 32 years, as long as I remember, I'll be ok :)
20:04 <@dabbott> heh
20:05 <@quantumsummers_> :) congrats sir, quite an accomplishment
20:05 <@robbat2> remembering is what the calendar is for ;-)
20:05 <@robbat2> congrats for so many years
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, thanks - its been hard work at times but worth it
20:05 <@quantumsummers_> I'm working on 5 years, and its been a ton of work. I would like to think it gets easier, but my optimism fails there. ;)
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 9 Any other business ...
20:06 <@quantumsummers_> none from me, ah ha!
20:06 <@robbat2> none from me
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> I have 1 item
20:06 <@dabbott> go ahead none here
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> The recording date for next years trustee elections.  I propose the close of our Jan 2011 meeting.  
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> +1
20:07 <@robbat2> +1
20:07 <@dabbott> yes
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> hard to believe its been 2 years already
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, its retire by rotaion mind - so we have continuity
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 10 Responsibilities 
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log, write to OIN and our new members
20:08 <@dabbott> I will do the motions
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, that leaves you fixing NM
20:09 <@robbat2> quantumsummers_, if you can identify the hardened docs that need license stuff, i can help you with that
20:09 <@robbat2> i've got DNS and the miranda replacement
20:09 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: yessir
20:09 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2: working on it now
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 11 - Open Floor
20:11  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to close the meeting
