20:00  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to call the meeting to order
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm here and logging - roll call
20:00 < tsunam> here
20:00 <@quantumsummers> HERE
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> openclothes, the agenda link is in /topic
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ?
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> I think robbat2 is away
20:01 <@quantumsummers> YEP
20:01 <@dabbott> hi all
20:01 <@quantumsummers> whoops
20:01 < openclothes> Thank you
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum .. lets start
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 3 ... 
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Request to license the Gentoo Logo  
20:02 < openclothes> Have you reviewed the openclothes.org web site?
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't see why this can't happen under our standard agreements
20:03 < tsunam> i would agree NeddySeagoon 
20:03 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I agree
20:04 -!- Guest77321 [~mike@c-71-192-166-249.hsd1.ct.comcast.net] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ^^  we are having a vote
20:04 <@quantumsummers> openclothes: is there some form of profit share that goes to gentoo foundation?
20:04 <@dabbott> I agree also with NeddySeagoon 
20:05 < openclothes> The purpose is to provide a means of donations to the recipient of your choice.
20:05 < openclothes> The Gentoo Foundation or the Free Software Foundation would be expected.
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> openclothes, make us an offer of a percentage to trustees at gentoo dot org   We can do the rest by email   You have our agreement subject to sorting out the odds and ends
20:06 < openclothes> Thank you
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Treasuers Report help over the AGM in April
20:07 < Guest77321> Hello Trustees - David, Roy, Joshua, Robin, Matthew -- I'm Mike, the guy who inquired regarding "Bookeeper, Accountant, or CPA"
20:07 < tsunam> I have it complete but I'd like to review it once more before I forward it to the trustee's alias for approval
20:07 <@quantumsummers> Guest77321: Hi Mike.
20:07 < Guest77321> Just stopping by to introduce myself as David Abbott suggested
20:07 <@dabbott> Hi Mike
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Guest77321, welcome Mike
20:07 < tsunam> It's been a little while since I last looked at it
20:07 < tsunam> Guest77321: hi mike
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, can someone help with the review ?
20:08 <@quantumsummers> Guest77321: Mike, you will be receiving an email from me in the next day or two.
20:08 < tsunam> NeddySeagoon: it'd be as easy to have everyone review it
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, send it to the alias for review then
20:08 < tsunam> NeddySeagoon: will do
20:08 < Guest77321> quantumsummers: very good, will be on the lookout.
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Cafepress Revenue ... is that split out in the report ?
20:09 < tsunam> it's not been accounted for in the report as I've not transfered the money to our bank accounts, nor have I logged in.
20:09 < tsunam> have not talked to christina about the account
20:10 <@quantumsummers> we need to get that taken care of.
20:10 < tsunam> yes we do
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, she was going to pass on access details.  We need to know, as its important to keep mony in the right FY
20:10 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: can you give dabbott her phone# or do you prefer to handle things/
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> money*
20:10 <@quantumsummers> ?
20:10 < tsunam> quantumsummers: I'm writing an email to her now
20:11 <@quantumsummers> ok, thanks
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam,  Updating Registration in NM.   It was still out of date on the web when I checked this morning
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> (I needed the link for my new employer)
20:12 <@quantumsummers> its due July 1 I think
20:12 <@quantumsummers> we have the form, tsunam & i
20:12 < tsunam> quantumsummers: july 31st
20:12 <@quantumsummers> FROM mR cHEW
20:12 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: ah, even better
20:12 < tsunam> its due 30 days after the end of the fiscal year
20:12  * quantumsummers notes that
20:12 < tsunam> but yes mr chew sent us the document mostly filled out
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> is it going to be on time ?
20:12 <@quantumsummers> yse
20:12 < tsunam> yep
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> thats the right answer!
20:13 < tsunam> as always there will be a 10 dollar filing fee
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers  SFLC Update
20:13 < tsunam> so for that annual which we can't make changes, then a second for the changes. Be 20 total
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, I suppose Mr Chew will have a fee too
20:13 < tsunam> actually no, and if he does...we can file directly
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Not even a retainer ?
20:14 < tsunam> nope, it actually should be part of being the RA
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds good
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers  SFLC Update
20:15 <@quantumsummers> sflc has been unreachable for 6 weeks now. I have no idea why, so I suspect I need to email or call the manager we talked with at the start 
20:16 <@quantumsummers> regardless, I have some input from lawyer colleagues on the cash sponsors policy
20:16 < tsunam> that's a bit concerning
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yeah thats a pretty long vacation by US standards
20:16 <@quantumsummers> yes it is
20:16 <@quantumsummers> not sure where karen is.
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, we'll get the cash sponsors stuff in a minute
20:17 <@quantumsummers> she does not return emails or voicemail as of today
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, gibe the manager a call or email next week then
20:17 <@quantumsummers> planning on it
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  Accountant Ad Response.   
20:18 <@quantumsummers> ok. so talked with Josh about this. and have a nice plan
20:18 < tsunam> well hopefully a nice plan =)
20:18 <@quantumsummers> main things remaining are budgets for 1,3,5,  years
20:18 <@quantumsummers> yes, we have hope :D
20:18 < tsunam> which quantumsummers has an idea about as well
20:19 <@quantumsummers> yes. I will email all details most likely tomorrow
20:19 <@quantumsummers> baisc idea is 1,3,5 year budgets for 3 income senarios
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> that sounds like a lot of work for an Inc our size
20:20 <@quantumsummers> it would be helpful if anyone has an idea for a budgeted program, now would be the time to mention it (or reply to the email)
20:21 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: there are few budget items at this time, so there is a lot of room for creativity
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> I would like us to find jobs for all the applicants. We are all volunteers and there is plenty to do
20:22 <@quantumsummers> also, we need some revenue forecasts
20:22 <@quantumsummers> the plan is to split the work amongst the new volunteers
20:22 < Guest77321> quantumsummers: when you say "budgeted program" do you mean software for budgeting?
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> we can extrapolate from the past for a lower limit
20:23 -!- openclothes [~quassel@75-145-118-233-Colorado.hfc.comcastbusiness.net] has quit [Quit: http://quassel-irc.org - Chat comfortably. Anywhere.]
20:23 <@quantumsummers> Guest77321: no, I meant a program in the sense of an activity of the foundation
20:23 < Guest77321> quantumsummers: k, understand
20:24 <@quantumsummers> there are 6 respondants to our solicitation for assistance
20:24 <@quantumsummers> that is plenty to accomplish what we need and then some, even with only one hour each per week
20:25 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: is the mail alias set up?
20:25 <@quantumsummers> we also, as discussed with tsunam, need to prepare a nice formal financial history report
20:25 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: yes it is, we are all (trustees) on it
20:26 <@quantumsummers> we'll get the volunteers that accept the mission on there next week
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, we need to get the 6 respondends on it too.  With their permission of course
20:27 <@quantumsummers> yes, the email will explain thngs
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, how far back does the history need to go ?
20:27 <@quantumsummers> 3 years min
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I would like to see back to 04, but that may be tough
20:27 < tsunam> which luckily we have in our quarterly reports , but will still take effort to make into a report
20:27 <@quantumsummers> yep
20:27 <@quantumsummers> 3 years is good
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Hmm - that could be a struggle.  We didn't get much history when we took over in 2008
20:28 < tsunam> financials were a bit better 
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:28 < tsunam> as corey kept the finances better then the rest
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Can this topic be completed on the ml ?
20:28 < tsunam> however anything before/related to before mid 04 is a miss
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, thats when the foundation was created 
20:28 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes 
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, moving on
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, 501(c)(3) registration status 
20:29 <@quantumsummers> 501c3 is basically the same as last time given sflc absense
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> welocme to the team Guest77321 
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  TODO List Progress
20:30 < Guest77321> NeddySeagoon: thx
20:30 <@quantumsummers> I am not sure if this refers to things on hte todo list or whether its up  or ....?
20:31 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: ?
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I think it was gettin gthe TODO list into the web app
20:31 <@dabbott> this is the todo list on the web app
20:32 <@dabbott> is everything completed?
20:32 <@quantumsummers> ok, we have received the paragraph from neddy
20:32 <@quantumsummers> thanks NeddySeagoon, well written piece
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks
20:32 <@quantumsummers> still need bio from tsunam, dabbott, & robbat2|na
20:32 <@quantumsummers> have an old one for NeddySeagoon, and mine
20:33  * quantumsummers updates the TODO
20:33 <@dabbott> mine should be thier
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Mine hasn't changed much
20:33 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: yes, I see uit
20:33 <@quantumsummers> sorry ...
20:33 < tsunam> I'll need to do mine, when we talk this week quantumsummers remind me
20:33 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: feel free to modify, I can wait a  it
20:33 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: no prob
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, it should be in your CV
20:34 <@quantumsummers> stilll need to remove the c6 stuff from the site
20:34 <@quantumsummers> dcma is same again due to sflc.
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, Rotating Sidebar  ... I know its close.   We'll carry this over to the next meeting
20:34 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: I lost the link to the web app again
20:35 <@quantumsummers> I can start of the changes for the c6 part
20:35 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: https://www.icoalesce.com
20:35 <@dabbott> ok thanks :)
20:35 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I can speak about the sidebar a bit
20:35 <@quantumsummers> its up for testing, and working as expected
20:36 <@quantumsummers> I bet it will be fully implemented in <30days
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  thanks
20:36 <@quantumsummers> my pleasure
20:36  * NeddySeagoon Cash Sponsors Policy ... quantumsummers you have some legal feedback ?
20:37 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes. for the moment it is sufficient. We will need to make some slight changes (clarifications) when we receive our new irs status
20:37 <@quantumsummers> main thing is the language gives us full discretion
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, so I can put it into foundation webspace as is ?
20:38 <@quantumsummers> yes.
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, that was the idea of a policy
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, I'll do that
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott ... Larry The Cow Graphics Contest
20:39 <@dabbott> Currently doing the screenshot contest when that is done start it
20:39 <@dabbott> the store should be sorted by then
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, sounds good - we don't want to split the artistic talent
20:39 <@quantumsummers> :)
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Education Support Request ... Sergeant First Class Stephen M. Vogler II   This has gone quiet.
20:40 < tsunam> that it has
20:40 <@dabbott> do we need a motion for the Cash Sponsors Policy
20:40 <@quantumsummers> this would be contingent on the next piece
20:41 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: sure.
20:41 < tsunam> NeddySeagoon: I think we should close the issue with the request as there's been no further request for an update
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Sounds good to me
20:41 <@quantumsummers> @trustees: motion: approve cash sponsor policy from NeddySeagoon
20:41 <@dabbott> I third
20:42 <@dabbott> yes
20:42 < tsunam> yes
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote yes
20:42 <@quantumsummers> carried
20:42 <@quantumsummers> (yes from me)
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion to close the Education Support Request 
20:42 <@quantumsummers> on closing the support request, I think we should email the guy if we approve this item
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> agreed
20:43 < tsunam> that would be the appropriate thing to do
20:43 <@quantumsummers> I second the motion
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion to close the Education Support Request with an email stating approval
20:43 <@dabbott> yes
20:43 < tsunam> yes for closing
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
20:43 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:43 <@quantumsummers> carried
20:43 <@dabbott> who will send the mail?
20:44 <@quantumsummers> I can
20:44 <@dabbott> thanks
20:44 <@quantumsummers> np
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,   Special Project Support/Equipment Request    this is the process I think
20:44 <@quantumsummers> yes
20:45 <@quantumsummers> I think this is fairly complete, as a framework for accepting requests
20:45 <@quantumsummers> the basic policy is standard across many orgs. (My wife helped write it & she does this stuff for a livig)
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I'm sure I emailed a few comments not long after your posted to the alias ... did you get them ?
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> There was nothing major
20:47 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I will have to look. 
20:47 <@quantumsummers> I went out of country for a while, sorry if I missed things
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I think they are in ... local currency was one
20:48 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I can review & re-post for comments.
20:48  * NeddySeagoon proposes a motion to adopt Funding Request Policies -- DRAFT as a formal document.
20:48 <@quantumsummers> we could take this to the alias for final
20:49 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: I can guide xml it
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> lets use it and fine tue it if there are bugs
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> tune*
20:49 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: please, if you have time. Thanks!!
20:49 <@dabbott> np
20:49 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: ok by me
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> is there a seconder ?
20:49 <@dabbott> we can do the rest by mail and vote next month
20:50 <@dabbott> seconded
20:50 <@quantumsummers> aye from me
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, you want us to vote on the guidexml version ?
20:50 <@dabbott> I quess when we want to make it official
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, OK ... motion withdrawn
20:50 <@quantumsummers> I think we want to make it official now
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Open Bugs
20:51 <@dabbott> yes make it official now
20:51 <@quantumsummers> ok, the motion has been seconded.
20:51 <@quantumsummers> please vote
20:51 <@dabbott> yes
20:51 <@quantumsummers> aye from me
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
20:51 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: ?
20:51 < tsunam> aye
20:51 <@quantumsummers> carried
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> I with draw the withdrawal :)
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Open Bugs
20:52 <@quantumsummers> lolz
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 33740
20:52 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/33740 "Reply address and fax-phone number missing"; Gentoo Infrastructure, Forums; ASSI; bugs-gentoo@kotiaho.net:trustees@g.o
20:52 <@quantumsummers> a fax might be tricky
20:52 <@quantumsummers> unless we have infra setup hylafax or soething
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, it has to be Wane Chews fax
20:53 <@quantumsummers> solid
20:53 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: is that in the doc we got?
20:53  * quantumsummers looks
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, robbat2 says we don't need COPPA as the forums are in Canada.  Its not going to get fixed until we get to phpbb3 anyway
20:54 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: kk
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, can you run it by SFLC please
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 208353
20:55 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/208353 "retire: Grant Goodyear (g2boojum)"; Gentoo Developers/Staff, Retirement; NEW; g2boojum@g.o:retirement@g.o
20:55 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats new - we should email Grant
20:56 <@quantumsummers> retirement for inactivity for 2+ years
20:56 < tsunam> yep that is new
20:56 <@quantumsummers> saw that come across several weeks back
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 285549
20:56 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549 "Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; belendax@gmail.com:trustees@g.o
20:57 <@quantumsummers> sflc has been asked
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, another one for legal
20:57 <@quantumsummers> no reply
20:57 <@quantumsummers> yep, will ping 'em hard next week
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 296766
20:57 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:57 <@quantumsummers> in progress
20:57 <@quantumsummers> going well
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need to vote on paying the fees ?
20:58 <@quantumsummers> we can, but its moot, we are required to pay
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> lets not set a time wasting precedent then
20:59 <@quantumsummers> +1
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 302542
20:59 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/302542 "domain gentoo.org.il"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; ASSI; spatz@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:59 <@quantumsummers> Motion: Do not purchase additional domin, and close bug as WONTFIX or whatever
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> My view is that we don't want to collect domain names we will never use
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Seconded
21:00 <@quantumsummers> Vote:
21:00 < tsunam> yes
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
21:00 <@quantumsummers> aye
21:00 <@dabbott> yes
21:00 <@quantumsummers> carried
21:00 <@quantumsummers> can someone with access update the bug or I can later?
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we set that as a policy too ?
21:00 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: we sure can
21:01 <@dabbott> we may want to ask robbat2|na he may have some input, I can add it to the agenda
21:01 <@quantumsummers> Domain Acquisition Policy: We have plenty at this point, no more unless sufficient reason can be demonstrated. Subject to trustees discrestion
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> I've put the motion in the bug and closed it
21:02 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: thanks
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, sounds good
21:02 <@dabbott> yep
21:02 <@quantumsummers> I bet I could make that one sentence
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 304853    	
21:02 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; ASSI; mihel@hotbox.ru:trustees@g.o
21:03 <@dabbott> in the works :)
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats waiting on the artwork contest
21:03 <@quantumsummers> that one needs updating with the new info dabbott, for those following the bug
21:03 <@dabbott> ok will do
21:03 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: any eta for the new contest?
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 Membership Applications
21:03 <@dabbott> when we have access to the store
21:04 <@quantumsummers> Motion: approve jlec (Justin Lecher) as foundation member
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Oops - I've skipped 5 ... we willcome back to 5
21:04 <@quantumsummers> he is a dev
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> seconded
21:04 <@quantumsummers> Voter:
21:04 < tsunam> yes
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
21:04 <@dabbott> yes
21:04 <@quantumsummers> aye
21:04 <@quantumsummers> carried
21:05 <@quantumsummers> I will email Justin to good news
21:05 <@quantumsummers> *the
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll send he email as he has been writing to me
21:05 <@quantumsummers> ah, very good
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business - Request to use Gentoo tango icon
21:06 <@dabbott> The icon was done on the Gnome Tango mail kist for use by Gentoo
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> We need to make this happen without making our logo public domain
21:06 <@dabbott> s/kist/list
21:07 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: what is the license on the icon set?
21:07 <@dabbott> none that I know of
21:07 < Guest77321> Thanks for the welcome, everyone. I'll keep an eye on my Inbox.  Bye for now.
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> bye for now Mike
21:08 <@quantumsummers> Guest77321: thank you! we'll talk soon
21:08 <@dabbott> by Mike, thanks for stopping by
21:08 < tsunam> by mike
21:08 < tsunam> bye*
21:08 <@dabbott> lol
21:08 <@quantumsummers> the lic for tngo is public domain
21:08 -!- Guest77321 [~mike@c-71-192-166-249.hsd1.ct.comcast.net] has quit [Quit: Leaving]
21:08 <@quantumsummers> check your tree
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, we can't do public domain
21:09 <@quantumsummers> x11-themes/tango-icon-theme
21:09 < tsunam> that's true
21:09 <@quantumsummers> what we could do is make an ebuild with our own lic that installs our logo icon
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> maybe one of the more restrictive creative commons
21:09 <@quantumsummers> by attribution non-commercial
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thats worth a look ... writing a lic is non trivial ... we don't want to go there
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, looks like one for legal
21:11 <@quantumsummers> we use the CC-by attrib-non-commercial
21:11 <@quantumsummers> will ask legal
21:11 <@dabbott> He wanted to use it for the start-here icon
21:11 <@quantumsummers> yes, great idea
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
21:12 <@quantumsummers> the tango ebuild will need a slight mod
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Its a good idea but we must protect our make too
21:12 <@dabbott> I am using our logo and it looks fine, it is so small you can not really tell the difference
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> mark*  not make
21:12  * quantumsummers uses the G for my kde launcher icon too
21:12 <@quantumsummers> hand installed though
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 7 Advertising Requests  ... there are none
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 8 Date of Next Meeting - 18th Jul 2010 19:00 UTC
21:13 <@dabbott> fine here
21:13 <@quantumsummers> good for me too
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> wfm
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 9  Any other business ...
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ?
21:14 <@quantumsummers> none from me
21:14 <@dabbott> yes
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> none from me
21:15 <@dabbott> would an ad for an attorney be something we would want to do?
21:15 <@quantumsummers> not yet please
21:15 <@quantumsummers> if we continue to have issues with sflc, then yet
21:15 <@quantumsummers> *yes
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> agreed
21:15 <@dabbott> ok
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, ?  AoB
21:15 < tsunam> none from me
21:16 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: any for you?
21:16 < tsunam> other then to say happy fathers day to all the fathers 
21:16 <@quantumsummers> I second that pronouncement!
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 10 Responsibilities
21:16 <@dabbott> I will do the motions
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log and write to our new member
21:17 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: will you be updating the motions
21:17 <@quantumsummers> ?
21:17 <@dabbott> yep
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 11  Open Floor
21:17 <@quantumsummers> many thanksw
21:18 <@quantumsummers> anyone for open floor?
21:18  * NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
