* NeddySeagoon banks his gavel to bring the meeting to order
<NeddySeagoon> roll call
* quantumsummers is present
<_robbat2|irssi> present
<NeddySeagoon> tsunam, dabbott 
<dabbott> here
<tsunam> present
<tsunam> heating up some food quickly
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, would you chair please ... I may be called away
<quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: very well sir
<NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, at least there is some point in you being at an airport ... they are no flights here
* NeddySeagoon passes the gavel to quantumsummers 
* quantumsummers calls for order ;)
<_robbat2|irssi> NeddySeagoon: consider it a time to study the sudden lack of noise pollutuion
<quantumsummers> Thanks for joining us today, normal business has been suspended due to the Annual General Meeting we are ohlding today
<_robbat2|irssi> fyi, my next flight boards in 65 minutes, so i hope we're done by then
<quantumsummers> Reports from the President, Secretary and Treasurer will be presented
<quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: Mr. President, would present your report
<NeddySeagoon> The presidents report is on line at http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/PresidentsReport.xml
<quantumsummers> thank you.
<quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: would you like to make any comment?
<NeddySeagoon> Provided its approved, I'll commit it to foundation webspace 
<quantumsummers> Any comments from the board or members?
<NeddySeagoon> Everything is there ... the key thing is that we must get more people working in the foundation. The 5 of us is not enough
<quantumsummers> Motion: Accept NeddySeagoon's report
<NeddySeagoon> Aye
<_robbat2|irssi> no objections from me, just some minor nits about wrong auto-corrected words
<_robbat2|irssi> Aye
<dabbott> yes
<tsunam> aye
<quantumsummers> Carried
<quantumsummers> thanks Roy
<NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, email me the nits, I'll fix it before I commit
* quantumsummers is scp-ing my report now.
<_robbat2|irssi> NeddySeagoon: ok, when i'm in Vancouver tonight
<NeddySeagoon> fine
<quantumsummers> Secretary's Report is here http://dev.gentoo.org/~quantumsummers/20100418_Gentoo_AGM_Sectretary_Report.txt
<quantumsummers> please pardon the format, I will xml-ify later today
<tsunam> looks fine to me
<quantumsummers> lol, that is ugly as sucker fish
<tsunam> I'd say a hagfish :-P
<quantumsummers> I am open to any additions 
<quantumsummers> tsunam: HA!
<NeddySeagoon> Motion to accept the secertarys report
<_robbat2|irssi> quantumsummers: not sure if it goes in yours or tsunam's, but what about our thank-you donation to OSL?
<tsunam> aye
<NeddySeagoon> aye
<_robbat2|irssi> aye in the meantime, pending an answer about that OSL donation
<tsunam> should probably go in mine
<dabbott> Aye
<tsunam> mine's still a work in progress ~_~
<NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, that should be in the accounts 
<tsunam> but I can give what I have so far
<NeddySeagoon> tsunam, yes please
<tsunam> In the fiscal year 2010, for the period of July 1st through march 31st  we had a Gross total of $24,404.44. Of the above amount Google Summer of Code payments account for $19,651.59. 
<tsunam> Our expenses for the same period of time include $205.87 dollars in fee's for paypal. Other expenses include purchases of the following equipment: 1 Efika MX, 6 atom based supermicro servers. The total for new hardware purchases came out to $3,751.17. Misceleneous expenses include 50 dollars to the OSUOSL beer fund to provide some support ot the students/staff who assisted in installation of the 6 atom servers.
<quantumsummers> tsunam: can you state the net from the store and donations?
<NeddySeagoon> We need to delay the acceptance motion until the report is complete
<tsunam> NeddySeagoon: understood
<tsunam> quantumsummers: store has not been transfered to the banks yet
<quantumsummers> ok.
<quantumsummers> I also noticed your pages on q1 and q1 2010
<quantumsummers> that is q1 and q2
<tsunam> quantumsummers: uploaded today is q2 and q3 2010
<_robbat2|irssi> tsunam: share numbers with me this evening, and as the trustee without a report of my own to add, I'll help review and get it ready with you
<quantumsummers> very nice gentlemen
<dabbott> tsunam, example table fix for 2010q2.xml  http://paste.pocoo.org/show/203366/
<quantumsummers> Next Item
<NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, its officers, reports.  If we had appointed officers, its they that would be doing these reports
<quantumsummers> 501(c)(3) registration status
<quantumsummers> shall I wait?
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, nope - please continue
<quantumsummers> Ok.
<NeddySeagoon> OOps - you are chairman.  Its your meeting
<tsunam> heh
<quantumsummers> I am slow typing, sorry
<quantumsummers> so, the application is in the final stages now. I have a budget I will circulate this week. We are awaiting a bit from the sflc regarding our 3-years problem, but that is all 
<tsunam> dabbott: feel free to commit 
<dabbott> ok
<quantumsummers> I will send a pdf version of the completed app with extraneous materials out this week as well
<tsunam> dabbott: for both q2 and q3 this fy. It was a change I was making at the request of clarifing expenses better
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thats because we are late ?
<quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: we are not late for anything 
<tsunam> quantumsummers: then 3-years problem?
<quantumsummers> oh oh oh
<quantumsummers> well, that is being "handled"
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I thought there was a max time to apply for 503 status after an Inc was created ?
<quantumsummers> yes, so the app requires some extra legal fiddling, but I have assurance we will have no trouble
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok
<quantumsummers> any questions?
<_robbat2|irssi> none
<quantumsummers> ok
<quantumsummers> Item 4 Trustee Election
<tsunam> nope, will await the final paperwork to review
<quantumsummers> tsunam: I think it will be more pleasant for you that way :)
<NeddySeagoon> not from me
<quantumsummers> Item 4 Trustee Election: The incumbent board members ran unopposed, and thus have been re-elected to another 2 year term
<quantumsummers> Congratulations once again, and thank you for all you guys continue to do for Gentoo
<NeddySeagoon> that gets the result into the meeting log - thanks
<tsunam> suggestion: mention the reelected members by name
<quantumsummers> Item 5: Meeting Calendar
<quantumsummers> whoops, NeddySeagoon, sire
<NeddySeagoon> The proposed meeting calander is at http://paste.pocoo.org/show/203288/
<quantumsummers> The incumbents re-elected are, David Abbott, Roy Bamford, and Joshus Jackson.
<quantumsummers> *Joshua
<tsunam> quantumsummers: thank you
<quantumsummers> Motion: Approve Meeting Calendar
<dabbott> proposed meeting calender dates are fine with me
<quantumsummers> same here
<tsunam> they should be fine with me as well
<NeddySeagoon> Meetings are planned for 3rd Sunday in the month
<NeddySeagoon> Seconded
<quantumsummers> yep, that is great
<tsunam> it's seemed to work well so far
<quantumsummers> aye
<NeddySeagoon> aye
<tsunam> aye
<dabbott> aye
<quantumsummers> _robbat2|irssi: ?
<_robbat2|irssi> sorry, aye
<quantumsummers> np
<quantumsummers> Motion Carried
<quantumsummers> calendar is adopted
<_robbat2|irssi> july, october, march, I might have something, but it's too far in the future to know yet
<quantumsummers> :)
<NeddySeagoon> I'll commit that when I get the chance
<quantumsummers> Item 6: Any Other Business
<NeddySeagoon> None from me
<quantumsummers> I have something
<_robbat2|irssi> minor note from me
<_robbat2|irssi> one new sponsor coming up thanks to a chance meeting at MySQL conference, details to follow when they go online in a few weeks
<quantumsummers> I mentioned it earlier but, new stuff in icoalesce. donor management is in place, todo lists in the project, new KM stuff, etc
<NeddySeagoon> _robbat2|irssi, that sounds good
<quantumsummers> nice work _robbat2|irssi
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do we need to go into this now or is there a HOWTO to read ?
<quantumsummers> Alrighty, moving along? No more business from the board?
<tsunam> none here
<_robbat2|irssi> nothing else from me
<quantumsummers> ah, NeddySeagoon, I have a book if you want to look at that
<NeddySeagoon> none from me
<dabbott> nope
<NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yes please.
<quantumsummers> It should be fairly clear from clicking around a bit, but I can answer questions  too
<quantumsummers> ok, so here we have our final item
<NeddySeagoon> I'll play first and ask later :)
<quantumsummers> Item 7: Open Floor
<quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: indeed sir, have fun :)
<quantumsummers> Now is the time for community members to comment please
<NeddySeagoon> we must be doing a good job - the community is very quiet
<tsunam> heh
<quantumsummers> anybody?
<quantumsummers> going once ...
<quantumsummers> going twice ...
<quantumsummers> three times a lady ...
<quantumsummers> Thanks to everyone for joining us today. Meeting adjourned.
