20:03  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to bring the September 19, 2010 trustee meeting to order
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call - I'm logging
20:04 <@dabbott> here
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, sends apologies
20:04  * quantumsummers_ is present
20:04 <@quantumsummers_> is Josh feeling any better?
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> ping robbat2|na  
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, I don't know - that was just for the record that he said he would no be here
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum - lets start
20:05 <@quantumsummers_> kk
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers it looks like its all yours
20:06 <@quantumsummers_> very well.
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> SFLC Questions (Software Freedom Law Center) 
20:06 <@quantumsummers_> I have had a couple of nice conversations with SFLC this past 30 days
20:06 <@quantumsummers_> going in the order of the agenda
20:06 <@quantumsummers_> 1) 501c3
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> You should summarise to t@.g.o not here
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> still working on it. Need to edit a ton of gentoo foundation web pages
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> ok
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> I can write it up
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> main things then:
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> To make sure we protect the client/lawyer relationship 
20:07 <@quantumsummers_> sure, none of it is terribly private
20:08 <@quantumsummers_> OIN: its political, no real harm/benefit
20:08 <@quantumsummers_> I am sort of ambivalent, personally
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Once its in the public domain, it cant be recalled ... but if you are sure, go ahead
20:08 <@quantumsummers_> I'll email the details
20:09 <@quantumsummers_> details regarding the required changes]
20:10 <@quantumsummers_> lets see. cash sponsors policy: looks good. will need minor extension when 501c3 goes into effect
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:10 <@quantumsummers_> project funding policy: looks good
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> good 
20:10 <@quantumsummers_> we will need to be careful about ad revenue]
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> why ?
20:11 <@quantumsummers_> its likely to be considered "unrelated business income" which is taxable
20:11 <@quantumsummers_> and there are limits as to how much we can take in from a single entity
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Even though it comes from large users who want to give something back
20:12 <@quantumsummers_> yes.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:12 <@quantumsummers_> this may be more a matter of how we attract these funds
20:13 <@quantumsummers_> and we may be able to change the language to avoid this sort of "penalty"
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> that works for me
20:13 <@quantumsummers_> I plan to pursue this, as there is precedent elsewhere in the oss community
20:14 <@quantumsummers_> I think we can do something like "reward levels" or something
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:14 <@quantumsummers_> which is to say: donate $X and get a "thank you" on the rotating ads thing
20:14 <@quantumsummers_> something along those lines
20:14 <@quantumsummers_> easy to implement
20:15 <@quantumsummers_> anyway, lets see, what else
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Just a wording change then ?
20:15 <@quantumsummers_> ah yes. dabbott, would you be willing to assist me in editing the foundation web pages?
20:15 <@dabbott> yes
20:15 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: a bit more than that, but mostly yes
20:15 <@quantumsummers_> dabbott: thanks
20:15 <@dabbott> np
20:16 <@quantumsummers_> I have a solid idea what needs to change, I plan to start next week
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> I can proof read if you want
20:16 <@quantumsummers_> please sir
20:17 <@quantumsummers_> regarding accountants. I have not talked with them lately, but have a few tasks for them over the next 30 - 60 days
20:17 <@quantumsummers_> also, I have started looking for book keepers
20:17 <@quantumsummers_> they are much cheaper than cpa for the same service
20:17 <@quantumsummers_> like $100 to $200 per month
20:17 <@quantumsummers_> versus >$1000
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> even for our volume of business ?
20:17 <@quantumsummers_> so that could be helpful
20:18 <@quantumsummers_> possibly able to get donated services or have one or two of the accountant volunteers assist
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> It would be good to get a volunteer as  $100 to $200 per month is a large part of our income
20:19 <@quantumsummers_> yes, I know
20:19 <@quantumsummers_> I hope to get a volunteer, as its not terribly labor intensive
20:19 <@quantumsummers_> but the basic fees are as stated in the open markety
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need a front page ad ?
20:19 <@quantumsummers_> no
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:19 <@quantumsummers_> I will attempt to manage this privately at first
20:20 <@quantumsummers_> if we have no luck, then front page
20:20 <@quantumsummers_> sound ok?
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> wfm
20:20 <@quantumsummers_> ok. good.
20:20 <@quantumsummers_> letrs see, next: libbash
20:21  * quantumsummers_ curses the small chicklet kbd
20:21 <@quantumsummers_> anyway
20:21 <@quantumsummers_> libbash, I completely forgot about this, I will mention this next week to legal. Sorry
20:21 <@quantumsummers_> Though, I still think we can move forward with the assignment
20:22 <@quantumsummers_> in general, in the USA, this is "business as usual"
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, you were going to send some papers to Petteri
20:22 <@quantumsummers_> Assignment papers, I believe
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, I think so
20:22 <@quantumsummers_> Ok, its on my list. I have those
20:22 <@quantumsummers_> simple enough
20:23 <@quantumsummers_> again, sorry, its been a tad crazy busy this past month
20:23 <@quantumsummers_> Alright, next is forums.
20:23 <@quantumsummers_> as far as I can tell, we are in the clear here
20:23 <@quantumsummers_> Its all a matter of our "Terms of Use"
20:24 <@quantumsummers_> let me locate that real quick
20:24 <@quantumsummers_> seems like I had some comments on that
20:24 <@quantumsummers_> from legal
20:24 <@quantumsummers_> gimme a min
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:26 <@quantumsummers_> hmm, cannot locate. will email
20:26 <@quantumsummers_> Main thing, is that we need to state that we are not responsible for what people do in the community forum, and I think we do that.
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, I think you have to make an account
20:27 <@quantumsummers_> no
20:27 <@quantumsummers_> http://forums.gentoo.org/profile.php?mode=register
20:27 <@quantumsummers_> that page has it
20:27 <@quantumsummers_> "While the administrators and moderators of this forum will attempt to remove or edit any generally objectionable material as quickly as possible, it is impossible to review every message. Therefore you acknowledge that all posts made to these forums express the views and opinions of the author and not the administrators, moderators or webmaster (except for posts by these people) and hence will not be held liable."
20:28 <@quantumsummers_> we might want to re-word this a bit. I will ask legal to assist on Monday. IIRC, some of this language can be made more explicit using contemporary legal language (language from the last 2-3 years)
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, that sounds good
20:29 <@quantumsummers_> ok. never a bad idea to keep up with the times :)
20:30 <@quantumsummers_> ok, then, is that all for me?
20:30 <@quantumsummers_> oh, there was another thing, not on the agenda
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Accountant Team Progress ?  or is that covered above ?
20:30 <@quantumsummers_> above. nothng new there
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> ok - my turn
20:31 <@quantumsummers_> I have tasks for them, will talk more next week
20:31 <@quantumsummers_> err, wait
20:31 <@quantumsummers_> please
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:31 <@quantumsummers_> I have a question for you
20:32 <@quantumsummers_> given that I co-signed all the banking paperwork, I would like to take interim authority to write checks during Joshua's leave
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> Yes please do
20:32 <@dabbott> yes
20:32 <@quantumsummers_> especially since it appears we will have some expenses coming up for hardweare
20:32 <@quantumsummers_> I think I can expedite that process
20:33 <@quantumsummers_> also, we need to make sure that Joshua has sent in our paperwork to NM
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:33 <@quantumsummers_> very important
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> can we check with NM rather than tsunam  ?
20:34 <@quantumsummers_> well, I looked late last week at the page on state of NM for us, no change
20:35 <@quantumsummers_> we're good until OCT 15th I belive
20:35 <@quantumsummers_> all he needs to do is drop the thing int he mail
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> can we resend ?  we don't want to go into bad standing again
20:35 <@quantumsummers_> grr, kbd
20:35 <@quantumsummers_> huh?
20:35 <@dabbott> quantumsummers_: can you call him
20:35 <@quantumsummers_> it needs his sig sa treasurer
20:36 <@quantumsummers_> *as
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> I thought if we filed late we had our good standing revoked
20:36 <@quantumsummers_> yes, dabbott, I can on Monday
20:36 <@quantumsummers_> we are not late until OCT 15th
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> OK, thanks
20:36 <@quantumsummers_> it might be Nov 15, come to think of it, let me check
20:38 <@quantumsummers_> yep Nov 15, we are in good standing until that date
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> josh should be back before then
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> my turn ?
20:38 <@quantumsummers_> ok, sure
20:39  * NeddySeagoon Electronics Book Gentoo Logo Usage (Jordan Force) / more information requested
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> I wrote requesting more info - no response yet
20:39 <@dabbott> I think we can drop it
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> I suggest we drop this as it wrote just after the last meeting
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> it -> I
20:40 <@quantumsummers_> Ok.
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott - your turn
20:41 <@dabbott> consultant page is done
20:41 <@dabbott> Larry contest is going on now no entries as yet
20:41 <@dabbott> there has been some interest
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, you are not on the consultants page ?
20:42 <@quantumsummers_> guess not, I would like to be :)
20:42 <@quantumsummers_> I will get with dabbott about that
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Should we register Larry as a Gentoo Mark ?
20:42 <@dabbott> please send me the info :)
20:43 <@quantumsummers_> dabbott: will do, thanks
20:43 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: perhaps a good idea
20:43 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: yes
20:43 <@dabbott> another legal question
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets register the winner of the competition then 
20:44 <@quantumsummers_> I will talk to legal about it
20:44 <@dabbott> we need a Gentoo user that is a lawyer we can pester
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> It may change the competition rules too. So maybe its too late
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> rl03 is still here
20:44 <@quantumsummers_> dabbott: send any inquiries to me, and I will forward
20:46 <@dabbott> ok will do
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Bugs ... I've not noticed any traffic on our bugs
20:47 <@dabbott> No new bugs
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> No old ones closed ?
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> miranda.dev.gentoo.org funding 
20:49 <@dabbott> We do not know how much it will cost yet
20:49 <@quantumsummers_> I like the idea of a larger machine, and usage of VMs
20:50 <@quantumsummers_> I can say will some certainty what cost would be on 4CPU machine
20:50 <@dabbott> Do we have the funds to buy instead of rent per month
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> What about a home for it too ?
20:50 <@quantumsummers_> funds, yes, home not certain
20:51 <@quantumsummers_> now, do we have the funds with the other machines needed, unceratin
20:51 <@quantumsummers_> it would be nice to have some old machines donated to us
20:52 <@quantumsummers_> If I could afford the BW, I'd say put them in my datacenter. Unfortunately, I cannot afford the BW at this time
20:52 <@quantumsummers_> I have the space though. Perhaps soon I will have BW money :|
20:52 <@quantumsummers_> Robin was talking to a couple of potential sponsors
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, it needs to be in OSL or something like that that has a long term low cost future
20:53 <@quantumsummers_> I would also like to talk to Amazon regarding free developer use of AWS resources
20:53 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: I agree.
20:53 <@dabbott> Lets table for email and next meeting once we have more info
20:53 <@quantumsummers_> ok'
20:54 <@quantumsummers_> thing is, we need to address the machine needs soon
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> We can't rent from GNi for long, so if that goes to the vote, I suggest 1 or 2 months max to sort out something long term.   The shorter the better
20:54 <@quantumsummers_> or reimburse solar
20:54 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: sounds good
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> I think we need to agree a short term fix now
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion ...
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> That the Foundation rent miranda for a period not exceeding two months, to allow infra to find an alternative.  If no alternative if found in that period, funding will be withdrawn
20:57 <@robbat2|na> crap, i'm an hour late aren't I
20:57 <@dabbott> hi robbat2|na 
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, yeah -  DST change ?
20:57 <@robbat2|na> only in my head
20:58 <@dabbott> robbat2|na: your thoughts on miranda.dev.gentoo.org funding 
20:58 <@robbat2|na> I think the new owners of GNi will want too much money unfortuntely
20:58 <@robbat2|na> a high-end box might be nice, but it's the matter of cost
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, any chance of puttong new hardware into OSL ?
20:59 <@robbat2|na> re potential sponsors, i've only got one more pending, and that's going to be used gear
21:00 <@robbat2|na> within power constraints yes
21:00 <@quantumsummers_> we could try to do a fund raiser for this specifically
21:00 <@robbat2|na> but we're going to need to replace osprey at the same time due to those power constraints
21:00 <@robbat2|na> since we finished decommisioning warbler+nuthatch at OSL
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> what about bandwidth and space ?
21:01 <@robbat2|na> we have 4.5A, 4 ips, and I think about 4U of space
21:01 <@quantumsummers_> hmm, I might recommend one of these quad node machines,, uses around ~1500 W, 4 nodes with up to 24 cores each
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> 4 ips ?
21:01 <@robbat2|na> IP addresses are a non-renewable resource yes
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, sorry - I'm being thick
21:02 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers_, 1500W is way over the 4.5A :-(
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> 4.5 a @ 110v or 220 v ?
21:02 <@quantumsummers_> that is max for the PS, not actual usage
21:02 <@robbat2|na> 110V
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Oh 500w ...
21:03 <@quantumsummers_> my bad there. so we are looking at a max of 500W, yikes
21:03 <@robbat2|na> but note that osprey does need to be replaced as well, and I'd ballpark it's consumption as 2A
21:03 <@quantumsummers_> all in one go with a quad node
21:04 <@quantumsummers_> 2U
21:04  * quantumsummers_ is biased, as I really like mine
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> can we talk about the long term on the list.  Meanwhile, how much tinme do we have with GNi as is, and should we buy more time ?
21:04 <@robbat2|na> solar expected them to try and contact us this coming week
21:05 <@robbat2|na> i was making sure the rest of the infra boxes are ready to poweroff so I can try to talk for more time
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> With a view to biling from 1st October ?
21:05 <@robbat2|na> unknown, i don't have contacts of my own at the new owners
21:06 <@robbat2|na> i tried to make some after GNi changed hands, to no avail
21:06 <@quantumsummers_> miranda is going to be expensive
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> how long will it take to get a funded replacement operational ?
21:06 <@robbat2|na> hardware acquisition plus probably 48 hours
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, so < 2 months ?
21:07 <@robbat2|na> our track record on hardware acquisition sucks
21:07 <@robbat2|na> so at least a month, if not 3
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, if we were funding miranda, it would focus our thoughts
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, just before you showed up I proposed  Motion ...
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> NeddySeagoon That the Foundation rent miranda for a period not exceeding two months, to allow infra to find an alternative.  If no alternative if found in that period, funding will be withdrawn
21:08 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2|na: we need to talk with blueness
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Does that sound reasonable ?
21:09 <@quantumsummers_> he may have some ideas
21:09 <@robbat2|na> if they offer a reasonable price yes
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, its just to buy time to part company without loosing miranda.  If we can find a home for funded hardware
21:11 <@robbat2|na> proposed: That the Foundation potentially rent miranda for a period not exceeding two months at a reasonable price, to allow infra to find an alternative.  If the price is unreasonable or no alternative if found in that period, funding will be withdrawn.
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> What is 'reasonable' ?
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> reasonable ->   not exceeding market rates
21:13 <@robbat2|na> i'd say market rates for that node would be 400-600USD/month
21:13 <@robbat2|na> mainly unsure of the market rate for the SAN space
21:14 <@quantumsummers_> what is the BW requirement for miranda
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Are we prepared to pay an 'unreasonable' sum for a few moths for continuity of service ?
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> months ?
21:15 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers_, i just tried to check, and my login to the website with bandwidth data doesn't work anymore :-(
21:16 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2|na: blueness may be willing to help out, BW is the issue
21:16 <@quantumsummers_> they have 5mbit
21:16 <@quantumsummers_> he is willing to help out with HW, but BW is the issue
21:18 <@robbat2|na> ok, lets just consider that for now, i'll ask some of the others if we can potentially send a gentoo-owned box to them
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> OK - what about the short term voting of funds to keep miranda alive ... if needed.  
21:18 <@quantumsummers_> yeah.
21:18 <@robbat2|na> maybe just fix it to a monetary sum?
21:18 <@dabbott> What is miranda used for, a dev box, build box ?
21:18 <@quantumsummers_> dabbott: too much to list
21:19 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, like $1200 ?
21:19 <@robbat2|na> $1200 sounds good to me
21:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion - The foundation authorises the expenditure of up to $1200 to rent mirada for the short term
21:20 <@quantumsummers_> seconded
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote please
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
21:20 <@quantumsummers_> aye
21:20 <@robbat2|na> aye
21:20 <@dabbott> yes
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried.   That gives robbat2|na /solar something to talk to GNi with if they need it
21:21 <@dabbott> thats $1200 per month
21:21 <@NeddySeagoon> longer term we need to get a shopping list priced
21:21 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, $1200 total
21:21 <@robbat2|na> ok, the only traffic stat I can come up with miranda right now is that in 219 days of uptime, it's used 67GB down, 20GB up
21:21 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2|na: can you talk with blueness?
21:21 <@quantumsummers_> ok
21:21 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers_, ok, blueness, and my other potentials
21:21 <@quantumsummers_> ok'
21:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we move on ?
21:24 <@robbat2|na> yes
21:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Developer of the month  ...
21:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Recognition for job well done.
21:26 <@NeddySeagoon> We have to be careful about pissing people off.  This can do more harm than good.  Also we cannot run the foundation for the benefit of our members, so other than some publicity, what can we do ?
21:27 <@dabbott> this is more of a pr job, if the newsletter was still donr
21:27 <@robbat2|na> the DOTM that used to be in GWN was only there to find somebody willing to be interviewed
21:27 <@robbat2|na> hardly anybody used to respond to the requests
21:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Ah, ok.  Patrick wanted to get the newsletter going again.  Maybe he is still interested ?
21:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Similarly for Contributor of the month  ?
21:29 <@dabbott> same thing yes
21:29 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, you are our expert in getting people to do interviews :)
21:29 <@quantumsummers_> fine by me :)
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> personally I like the linuxcrazy approach
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Interviews and PR is fine by me
21:30 <@dabbott> Its all about motivation :)
21:31 <@robbat2|na> could titling them differently ruffle less feathers?
21:31 <@robbat2|na> "Developer Spotlight"
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Start a thread in Gentoo Chat asking for volunteers maybe
21:32 <@NeddySeagoon> or Focus on <project>
21:34 -!- Arfrever [~Arfrever@gentoo/developer/Arfrever] has joined #gentoo-trustees
21:35 <@NeddySeagoon> Moving on ...
21:35 <@NeddySeagoon> Gentoo name in a personal blog  NinGentoo: The way of the Gentoo Ninja  
21:35 <@NeddySeagoon> Seems harmless
21:35 <@robbat2|na> it's personal use, +1
21:36 <@dabbott> fine by me
21:36 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, ?
21:36 <@quantumsummers_> fine by me
21:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 Membership Applications
21:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Thomas Beierlein - developer
21:36 <@NeddySeagoon> +1
21:36 <@dabbott> yes
21:37 <@robbat2|na> +1
21:37 <@quantumsummers_> +1
21:37 <@NeddySeagoon> Thank you.  I'll write the approval email
21:37 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: thanks
21:37 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 8  Date of Next Meeting - 17th Oct 2010 19:00 UTC
21:37 <@robbat2|na> aye
21:38 <@dabbott> fine here
21:38 <@quantumsummers_> wfm
21:38 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
21:38 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 9 Any other business ...
21:39 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, you always have something
21:39 <@dabbott> quantumsummers_: any of the accountants want to be foundation members
21:39 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: I will adress things via mail
21:39 <@quantumsummers_> :)
21:39 <@dabbott> maybe with a cloak ++
21:39 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, :)
21:39 <@quantumsummers_> dabbott: I'll ask 'em
21:39 <@dabbott> quantumsummers_: keep them interested :)
21:39 <@quantumsummers_> yessir
21:39 <@NeddySeagoon> The accountants should be members and maybe Gentoo staffers too
21:40 <@dabbott> yes seconded
21:40 <@quantumsummers_> robbat2|na: had a nice talk with Tony, btw, he is looking forward to your email
21:40 <@quantumsummers_> NeddySeagoon: I agree
21:40 <@quantumsummers_> lets see what they say this coming week
21:40 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers_, ok
21:40 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, AoB ?
21:41 <@robbat2|na> none from me
21:41 <@dabbott> none here
21:41 <@NeddySeagoon> none from me
21:41 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 10 Responsibilities
21:42 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post logs and email our new dev member
21:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Who will update the motions page? 
21:42 <@dabbott> I will do the motions
21:42 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks dabbott 
21:42 <@dabbott> np
21:42 <@robbat2|na> apologies again for my tardiness
21:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 11  Open Floor
21:43  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to close the meeting

