18:53  * NeddySeagoon banges the gavel to open the meeting
18:53 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call
18:53 <@dabbott> here
18:53 <@robbat2> awake
18:53  * quantumsummers is present
18:53  * NeddySeagoon is logging
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum ... lets go
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 3 Old Business
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Recording Date ...   I thought this was settled under AOB last month ?
19:01 <@quantumsummers> It was.
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers your turn then
19:02 <@quantumsummers> ok.
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> SFLC Questions (Software Freedom Law Center)  
19:02 <@quantumsummers> 1. still reviewing our application. Will pass to sflc after Jan 1st.
19:02 <@quantumsummers> App is pretty much complete however
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> It disappointing its so slow
19:03 <@quantumsummers> I know. I've not had as much time to work on it as I would like to have
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> can you email it to trustees@ ?
19:03 <@quantumsummers> sure.
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Thanks - its really for my own curiousity, since I've not been a party to this before
19:04 <@quantumsummers> Its at my office, so it might be Monday before I can get at it.
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> fine
19:04 <@quantumsummers> Its an interesting process. I would be curious to know what differences exist for this in EU
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Invention Network.  The paperwork is done, dabbot was working a press release
19:04 <@quantumsummers> Sorry its taking me so long
19:05 <@quantumsummers> Press release went out, at least to gentoo news
19:05 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Gentoo never gets above 3rd on any list of priorities
19:05 <@dabbott> Its all done posted to front page g.o
19:05 <@quantumsummers> http://www.gentoo.org/news/20101206-OIN-announcement.xml
19:06 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I still feel bad its taken so long, meh.
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> its been very quiet, I thought it might have provoked some discussion
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> libbash license (GSOC)
19:06 <@quantumsummers> oddly, I have not seen anything anywhere else about our joining
19:06 <@quantumsummers> libbash, I have the CLA done. Sent it off to sflc for their review. Not had a chance to follow up.
19:07 <@quantumsummers> its fairly standard, so I do not expect much from them. I do want an OK though
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> keep Petteri in the picture
19:07 <@quantumsummers> will do
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Accountant Team Progress
19:07 <@quantumsummers> as a side note, I had my lawyer look at it & he thought it was fine
19:09 <@quantumsummers> nothing required at the moment. Given Joshua's wishes (and non-response to Neddy on his request for a bit more than 0 notice), I think we should figure out who will take care of treasurer first, then have that person get involved with the accountant volunteers
19:09 <@quantumsummers> I was able to work up what was needed for our app with my cpa
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, he did respond, but just to me.  Hes considering it
19:09 <@quantumsummers> ah, didn;t see that
19:10 <@quantumsummers> ok. in any event we need a plan for the future
19:10 <@quantumsummers> this is troubling to me, as without him, I am the only signatory 
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> What about getting one of the Accountant Team on board to fill some of the slack, as an officer ?
19:10 <@quantumsummers> if I were to keel, it would be trouble
19:11 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: +1 sounds like a good idea
19:11 <@dabbott> +1
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Who besides Josh has worked with them ?
19:11 <@quantumsummers> robbat2 had some interest in the finances (based on statements from his bid in the election)
19:11 <@robbat2> I wanted to track the numbers more
19:11 <@quantumsummers> I have emailed with them
19:11 <@quantumsummers> the acct volunteers that is
19:12 <@robbat2> since i'm not in the US, i'm not sure if that has an implication on who treasurer is
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I would like to keep tsunam around long enough to help with the handover but not have him start anything new
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, I can't be, I'm not permitted to operate a USD accounf
19:12 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: I will get us setup for monthly downloads of our transactions, etc. Perhaps we can do something to store/access those files
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> we need something more short term
19:13 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, ok, tracking the data is what I wanted to be involved in
19:13 <@quantumsummers> I have checks (and cheques) and access to the bank (my name is on the account)
19:13 <@quantumsummers> so, short term I think we are in fine shape
19:13 <@quantumsummers> nothing outstanding that I am aware of
19:14 <@robbat2> just bus factor
19:14 <@quantumsummers> I sent the check to Jeremy re: HDD
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, work out what you can offload to an officer and see if you can get one (or more) of the accounatnts to volunteer
19:07 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: +1 more eyes the better
19:08 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: +1 I will try, though with the holidays we may not get much assist until after Jan 1st. (which is fine really)
19:08 <@NeddySeagoon> yep ... as long as you don't follow ferris
19:09 <@quantumsummers> as usual, my cpa is fine with taking a look from time to time. I think she isn't even charging
19:09 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I do not plan to :)
19:09 <@quantumsummers> well, at least for another 50 years or so
19:09 <@robbat2> nobody plans to die for a long time
19:09 <@quantumsummers> lolz
19:09 <@quantumsummers> true
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, your CPA working that way is fine, if she is charging, we want the bill, not your business
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, heh, I'm 57
19:10 <@quantumsummers> no worries for now. if she says its gonna cost, I will ask first before proceeding
19:10 <@quantumsummers> ask the board that is
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> fine, don't pick up the tab yourself is all I'm saying
19:10 <@quantumsummers> sure, what I have incurred to date is negligible.
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Internship Confirmation
19:11 <@quantumsummers> I mailed Raty about this, not heard back that I recall. Let me look though to make sure
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, DNS / BIND progress ... you were going to compose a thank you for me to review too ...
19:12 <@robbat2> yes, I was going to compose it, and haven't yet
19:12 <@quantumsummers> ok, so its on the intern now to provide paperwork for Petteri to sign
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks
19:12 <@robbat2> i haven't done much work on the BIND itself, work and the holiday season has kept me busy
19:12 <@quantumsummers> its a bad time of year to do too much.
19:13 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: if I draft something up, will that help?
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, do you want to say a few words about progress ?
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, are you sure you have the time ?
19:13 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, that would be most useful
19:13 <@robbat2> but i'll probably get to it this week
19:13 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: ok, I think I have most of the info needed, you can spit polish & send
19:13 <@robbat2> my calender is looking mostly empty
19:13 <@quantumsummers> lucky you
19:13 <@robbat2> last week's calender was full
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, git migration then :)
19:14 <@quantumsummers> ooooooooh :P
19:14 <@robbat2> i haven't look at that, but donnie did find a good potential incremental migration tool
19:14 <@quantumsummers> nice. nice. nice.
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, I was just teasing
19:14 <@robbat2> and we had a useful discussion about partitioning history
19:14 <@robbat2> so that the packfile issue goes away
19:15 <@robbat2> specifically, like the linux kernel had a historical packfile available, we'd do that same
19:15 <@robbat2> that's everything from me
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Bugs
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Bug 296766
19:15 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
19:15 <+jmbsvicetto> if it helps, some of the KDE teams are planning to do the same - put history on a separate repo
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets leave that bug until after the election
19:16  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel on jmbsvicettos fingers :)
19:16 <@robbat2> that's still 3 months away to the close of the election
19:17 <@quantumsummers> lol, ok. so I started the process for that
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, its been open for 9 months already.  Do we wnat to fix it now and potentially again, after the election ?
19:18 <@quantumsummers> called the state, I have to fill out a form & send it back. I may have to get Josh's sig too, maybe. Apparently I was not talking to the most knowledgeable person in the office. The instructions for the form are more detailed.
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats assuming we actually have a vote this year
19:18 <@quantumsummers> Its in the mail to me as of middle of last week
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, just do it then, since its started
19:18 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: just read your comment, you want me to wait on that?
19:18 <@quantumsummers> its really a simple process
19:19 <@quantumsummers> we can do it as many times as we need
19:19 <@robbat2> let's do it now to get Josh's signature before he becomes even harder to reach
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, continue with it
19:19 <@quantumsummers> if needed, we will take care of it ASAP+100
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Bug 343975
19:20 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/343975 "Funding Request: SATA HDD for ARMv7 Development"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; ASSI; darkside@g.o:trustees@g.o
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> I guess this is closed
19:20 <@quantumsummers> I will close it when I hear from Jeremy that he has deposited the check I sent
19:21 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 (there being no new business) Membership Applications
19:21 <@NeddySeagoon> I propose that the 3 applicants are accepted 
19:21 <@dabbott> yes to all
19:21 < darkside_> i'll deposit the check this week (expecting in the mail tomorrow)
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, quantumsummers ?
19:22 <@quantumsummers> darkside_: let me know when its in.
19:22 <@robbat2> aye
19:22 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: approve all three
19:22 < darkside_> nod
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> We have 3 new members.  I'll write to them
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 8  Date of Next Meeting - 16th Jan 2011 19:00 UTC
19:23 <@dabbott> fine here
19:23 <@quantumsummers> looks good to me
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> wfm
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats back to the third Sunday in the month
19:24 <@robbat2> aye fine with me
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 9 Any other business ...
19:24 <@robbat2> jmbsvicetto, ^^^
19:25 <@quantumsummers> Jorge, so I hear you want some disks or something?
19:25 <+jmbsvicetto> So, if we wanted to ask funding for some dvds for FOSDEM when would be the latest that we would have to do it?
19:25 <@dabbott> his fingers are sore
19:25 <+jmbsvicetto> dabbott: yes ;)
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, we would like 6 weeks to get DVDs made ... so time is pressing
19:26 <+jmbsvicetto> likewhoa finished a new revision yesterday. He's about to ask users to test it
19:26 <+jmbsvicetto> right
19:26 <@robbat2> Jorge: were you going to find pressing in the EU, or just get reimbursed?
19:26 <+jmbsvicetto> As we're not going to have a booth, would it make sense to fill such a request?
19:26 <@robbat2> err
19:26 <@quantumsummers> jmbsvicetto: are you planning to line up the service & jus have us pay?
19:26 <@robbat2> i double-failed
19:26 <+jmbsvicetto> I was going to ask you who do you know that could do it
19:27 <+jmbsvicetto> I don't know anyone who can do it
19:27 <@quantumsummers> jmbsvicetto: I found a couple different companies online that do it. Nothing too special. decent deal for copies, the pressing is expensive
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> I think we have a licencee in the EU somewhere
19:27 <@quantumsummers> so, if its just duplication its cheap, mastered/pressed not cheap
19:28 <+jmbsvicetto> I could burn a few dvds to take with me, but I don't have a pressing kit to print labels for them
19:28 <@quantumsummers> the dups get labels, a3li has nice artwork for it
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, we can get 100 or so made with printed labels but you wan't want them sent to your home address 
19:28 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I think you are correct. Lets look at that, might get a better deal
19:28 <+jmbsvicetto> we have artwork for the dvds as well. We do need to think if / how we want to label the release
19:29 <@dabbott> LinuxPusher could do it, he gae us the laptop badges  http://www.linuxpusher.com/distributions/Gentoo-Linux
19:29 <+jmbsvicetto> 10.X is old
19:29 <@quantumsummers> sure.
19:29 <@quantumsummers> dabbott he is in canada right?
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> It needs to be called 11.0 now
19:29 <@dabbott> no denmark
19:29 <@robbat2> linuxpusher is denmark iirc
19:29 <@quantumsummers> perfect then
19:29 <+jmbsvicetto> NeddySeagoon: if possible, getting them to Brussels would be better. I don't know if we could get them handed to the Hotel
19:29 <@robbat2> and his site also seems to be down for me
19:29 <@robbat2> ah, just slow
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, probably.  
19:30 <@quantumsummers> also, jmbsvicetto email me your address, I have some sticker badges you can give away as well
19:30 <+jmbsvicetto> NeddySeagoon: some people showed an interest in not having numbered releases
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Then we divide up the leftovers to take them home
19:30 <+jmbsvicetto> quantumsummers: sure
19:30 <@quantumsummers> I'll mail them out early next week via airpost
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, how many DVDs ?
19:31 <@dabbott> There is still some bugs on the latest LiveDVD it may not be ready
19:31 <@quantumsummers> jmbsvicetto: as we have a rolling release distro, why would it be bad to have a version on a disk, which indicates important info like how old it is?
19:31 <@dabbott> speakup, wireless
19:31 <@quantumsummers> (which I note that other distros are starting to pick up the rolling release bit too, as it is wise :) )
19:32 <+jmbsvicetto> quantumsummers: mailed you my address
19:32 <+jmbsvicetto> NeddySeagoon: 100 / 200 ?
19:32 <@robbat2> i need to vanish in about 2 minutes for something
19:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thats what we need a quote for then
19:33 <+jmbsvicetto> I'm not against the numbers, but some people didn't like it. iirc, solar preferred a different naming scheme
19:33 <@quantumsummers> jmbsvicetto: got it
19:33 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon, jmbsvicetto that number will cost ~200 - 300 USD for duplications
19:33 <+jmbsvicetto> NeddySeagoon: even though I don't know if we'll give up that many without a booth
19:33 <@quantumsummers> we can get a nice discount for ~500 units
19:34 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: have a good one
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, does thing include DVD cases and a printed insert ?
19:34 <@quantumsummers> i think so, yes
19:34 <@robbat2> back in 45 minutes anyway, gone
19:34 <+jmbsvicetto> quantumsummers: iirc, there's another EU event soon
19:35 <@quantumsummers> it will be cheaper to get 500, then we have them all year (or until they are outdated)
19:35 <+jmbsvicetto> ok
19:36 <+jmbsvicetto> So is NeddySeagoon the only one of you that's going to FOSDEM?
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, get the quotes.  500DVDs is a lot to have to carry out of Brussels.
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, I'm the only one on the right contenent :)
19:36 <+jmbsvicetto> NeddySeagoon: hehe
19:37 <+jmbsvicetto> If we could get a few devs from different places to take a few back with them, it would be easier to carry them out
19:37 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: we can send them to your house, you can store them :D
19:37 <+jmbsvicetto> I'm sure they'll be *cool* ;)
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I can store some, 
19:37 <@quantumsummers> ok, NeddySeagoon, robbat2, I have the receipt from darkside_ already
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, lovely
19:38 <@quantumsummers> he just didn't want his addy in public
19:38 <@quantumsummers> 69.99 USD for his HDD
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> seems fair
19:38 <@quantumsummers> very good use of the budget we gave, 1TB seagate I think
19:38 <@quantumsummers> should last him awhile
19:38 < darkside_> indeed, thx for the vote of confidence too. very appreciated
19:39 <@quantumsummers> darkside_: have fun and thanks for your efforts!
19:39 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds a good price, they are ?69.99 here but computer kit prices have always been like that
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business ... from anyone else
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Nothing from me
19:40 <@quantumsummers> none from me
19:40 <+jmbsvicetto> about the "pending" election, I should talk to you soon to start thinking about it
19:40 <@dabbott> nothing more from me
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, the usual thing is nominations in Feb and Voting in March
19:41 <@quantumsummers> jmbsvicetto: I think its Robin and I up for re-election, then we will need to elect someone to Josh's seat
19:41 <+jmbsvicetto> ok
19:41 <@quantumsummers> maybe dabbott would assist as an election staffer
19:41 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't thing its Robin
19:41 <@quantumsummers> maybe just me then
19:41 <@dabbott> sure
19:41 <+jmbsvicetto> unless anyone sees any reason not to, I'm going to volunteer as an election official again
19:41 <@quantumsummers> jmbsvicetto: +1
19:42 <@NeddySeagoon> what about conflict of interests of having trustees help run the election ?
19:42 <@dabbott> thanks jmbsvicetto
19:42 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I was an official for the last one.
19:42 <@quantumsummers> I think its ok, as long as the official is not running :)
19:42 <+jmbsvicetto> antarus away message states he's willing to run an election. So if we need someone, we can poke him
19:42 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
19:43 <@quantumsummers> kk
19:43 <+jmbsvicetto> Then there's rane and dberkholz that may also be willing to do it
19:43 <@quantumsummers> sounds good
19:43 <@NeddySeagoon> is rane around ? I've not seen hime on IRC for ages
19:43 <@dabbott> I say if we can get someone that is not a trustee better yet
19:43 <@quantumsummers> and for the record, I will run for re-election if that is cool with everyone
19:43 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: he has been around
19:43 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: he is around a bit, yes
19:43 <+jmbsvicetto> He's around, just hidding ;)
19:44 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: yes yes :)
19:44 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, sure.  I would like for the board to endorse any retiring members who stand for reelection
19:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 10.  Responsibilities
19:45 <@quantumsummers> ok.
19:45 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll do the log and 3 emails
19:45 <@dabbott> I will do the motion
19:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 11  Open Floor
19:45 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks dabbott 
19:46 <@dabbott> np
19:47  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting. (Carefully avoiding jmbsvicettos fingers)
