Jan 17 14:00:56 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum ... lets start
Jan 17 14:01:14 <NeddySeagoon>	Meeting is being logged, and robbat2 is posting.  I'm logging too
Jan 17 14:01:38 <NeddySeagoon>	3. Old Business  ... we will come back to tsunam stuff
Jan 17 14:01:59 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers ... SFLC Update 
Jan 17 14:02:39 <quantumsummers>	1. I am working on a tentative budget for the Foundation based on a $20,000 USD annual income
Jan 17 14:03:18 <quantumsummers>	2. I am collecting letters of support from the community, so far I have 1 from D'Youville College, I should see one from MIT this week or next
Jan 17 14:03:22 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, lets see if we can't boost that in years to come - we have never done any active fundraising
Jan 17 14:03:53 <quantumsummers>	indeed, I think we will have good luck there
Jan 17 14:04:19 <quantumsummers>	lets see ...
Jan 17 14:04:41 <quantumsummers>	I need to notify the community (dev & user) to get more letters of support
Jan 17 14:04:56 *	quantumsummers will add that to the list, if its ok with the board
Jan 17 14:04:58 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 17 14:05:08 <quantumsummers>	at this point I have been soliciting personally
Jan 17 14:05:41 <quantumsummers>	3. Once the budget is complete, and I have a few more letters I think we are good to go
Jan 17 14:05:51 <quantumsummers>	as in submit the application
Jan 17 14:06:02 <quantumsummers>	I'll be talking with Karen next week
Jan 17 14:06:07 <robbat2>	must the letters be from orgs/users within the US?
Jan 17 14:06:11 <quantumsummers>	no
Jan 17 14:06:25 <quantumsummers>	we want US entities, but others are most wecome
Jan 17 14:06:30 <quantumsummers>	*welcome
Jan 17 14:06:35 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm happy with an email to -nfp and -dev-announce but at them moment, not -foundation-announce
Jan 17 14:06:47 <robbat2>	and by entities, companies or edu/nfp?
Jan 17 14:06:51 <quantumsummers>	it will favor us to demonstrate the international nature of the work
Jan 17 14:07:01 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: any org 
Jan 17 14:07:15 <quantumsummers>	companies, Unis, ngo,nfp
Jan 17 14:07:16 <robbat2>	ok, I can write some of the infra sponsors and some other former contacts
Jan 17 14:07:25 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: that would be wonderful
Jan 17 14:07:38 <quantumsummers>	please CC me if you don't mind
Jan 17 14:07:50 <quantumsummers>	or CC trustees
Jan 17 14:08:03 <robbat2>	sure
Jan 17 14:08:04 <quantumsummers>	that is all on sflc & 501c3
Jan 17 14:08:31 <NeddySeagoon>	next item Certified Public Accountant (Quotes) ... still quantumsummers 
Jan 17 14:08:36 <quantumsummers>	I think it would be good to have the draft to the board by the beginning of Feb for review
Jan 17 14:08:46 <quantumsummers>	for comments that is
Jan 17 14:08:54 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, thats only two weeks
Jan 17 14:09:17 <quantumsummers>	yes, its just the normal stuff, the budget, narrative
Jan 17 14:09:31 <quantumsummers>	the letters, we can take some time on
Jan 17 14:09:33 <NeddySeagoon>	ok - if you are happy with that target
Jan 17 14:09:46 <quantumsummers>	I would really like to see the app submitted before March 31
Jan 17 14:10:20 <NeddySeagoon>	yeah - there could be a board shuffle in early April
Jan 17 14:10:32 <quantumsummers>	ok, CPA: for some reason I have not received anything from either my local CPA or the CPA sflc recommended. I will follow up on Monday. My request may have been lost in the tax-prep shuffle
Jan 17 14:10:44 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 17 14:10:48 <quantumsummers>	sorry, I have so little there
Jan 17 14:11:08 *	bonsaikitten has quit (Excess Flood)
Jan 17 14:11:10 <NeddySeagoon>	Robert Buchholz  - Gentoo Developer Certificate 
Jan 17 14:11:18 <quantumsummers>	Printed & ready to send
Jan 17 14:11:33 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, he was only wanting a PDF file
Jan 17 14:11:34 <quantumsummers>	I can do that early this week (send it)
Jan 17 14:11:40 <quantumsummers>	oh, really
Jan 17 14:11:51 <quantumsummers>	heh, ok, I will email it to him then.
Jan 17 14:12:28 <NeddySeagoon>	send the cert snail mail too, it will be nice to look back on in years to come
Jan 17 14:12:49 <quantumsummers>	sure, since I have it already. I think I'll need his addy. I can ask for that when I email the cert
Jan 17 14:13:02 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Jan 17 14:13:07 <quantumsummers>	ok.
Jan 17 14:13:09 <NeddySeagoon>	next item  Notify New Foundation Members  - quantumsummers 
Jan 17 14:13:32 <quantumsummers>	Added to my list. Given that we have a new applicant this meeting, I will do it all in one go later today
Jan 17 14:13:34 *	NeddySeagoon likes dabbotts new agend layout
Jan 17 14:13:42 *	quantumsummers does to
Jan 17 14:13:43 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 17 14:14:01 <quantumsummers>	its not in the agenda
Jan 17 14:14:13 <quantumsummers>	but the KM is up, so let me know if you have questions
Jan 17 14:14:14 <NeddySeagoon>	Next item - Rotating Sidebar - robbat2 
Jan 17 14:14:39 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, heh - I broke it by living in Scotland
Jan 17 14:14:47 <quantumsummers>	no breakage, that is my fault
Jan 17 14:14:48 <robbat2>	no news on it yet, i've been setting up some new infra boxes where it will live, just got access to them this past friday
Jan 17 14:14:58 <robbat2>	motmot & magpie.g.o, hosted at VR.org
Jan 17 14:15:02 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: have you audited the code?
Jan 17 14:15:06 <robbat2>	partially
Jan 17 14:15:12 <quantumsummers>	any thoughts?
Jan 17 14:15:22 <robbat2>	looks like it should work great
Jan 17 14:15:30 <quantumsummers>	also, if you want some pointers on deployment, I can assist
Jan 17 14:15:35 <robbat2>	and I want 48 hour days
Jan 17 14:15:35 <NeddySeagoon>	We have the go ahead from our members
Jan 17 14:15:39 <quantumsummers>	we have an ebuild tempalte for stuff like that
Jan 17 14:16:16 *	quantumsummers feels robbat2's pain on that
Jan 17 14:16:35 <quantumsummers>	20 hour days for the past couple of weeks fo rme
Jan 17 14:16:37 <NeddySeagoon>	any more on the sidebar ?
Jan 17 14:16:38 <dabbott>	we need at least 2 robbat2 
Jan 17 14:16:43 <quantumsummers>	lol
Jan 17 14:16:54 *	tcunha has quit ("Lost terminal")
Jan 17 14:17:03 <quantumsummers>	yeah, where is robbat1?
Jan 17 14:17:04 <robbat2>	nothing else on the sidebar at this time. i'm hoping to launch it by feb 3rd
Jan 17 14:17:10 <quantumsummers>	nice
Jan 17 14:17:14 <robbat2>	but i'm going to FOSDEM, so it might hold off till I return
Jan 17 14:17:21 <armin76>	we could have 2 robbat1 *g*
Jan 17 14:17:27 *	tcunha (n=tiago@gentoo/developer/tcunha) has joined #gentoo-trustees
Jan 17 14:17:42 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, I wish I was going to FOSDEM ... next year maybe
Jan 17 14:17:52 *	quantumsummers might try for next year too
Jan 17 14:18:00 <quantumsummers>	sounds like a ton of fun
Jan 17 14:18:23 <NeddySeagoon>	next item  Emails Received & Status - dabbott 
Jan 17 14:18:45 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I have the email you are missing
Jan 17 14:18:52 <dabbott>	I just have been attempting to keep track of emails received
Jan 17 14:19:08 <quantumsummers>	http://dpaste.com/146541/
Jan 17 14:19:13 <dabbott>	and the status
Jan 17 14:19:20 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: if you want, we can put that in the KM
Jan 17 14:19:30 <dabbott>	that would be great
Jan 17 14:19:52 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, we need all the old emails there too.
Jan 17 14:20:04 <dabbott>	most of the emails are for advertising requests
Jan 17 14:20:12 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: I will see about that soon.
Jan 17 14:20:17 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, ok
Jan 17 14:20:44 *	Arfrever has quit ("Exre (KVIrc 4)")
Jan 17 14:20:53 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, any more on emails ?
Jan 17 14:21:03 <dabbott>	no thats it
Jan 17 14:21:19 <NeddySeagoon>	next item CD/DVD Policy & Guidelines - dabbott 
Jan 17 14:21:52 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thats a good page you put up.  It needs to link to the guidelines page
Jan 17 14:22:21 <dabbott>	looking for comments suggestions that is just on my dev space for now
Jan 17 14:22:56 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott,  I'm going blind - the link to the guidelines is there
Jan 17 14:23:03 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I might change the Definition of Gentoo Project to say: is supported by the Gentoo Foundation ( as opposed to directed)
Jan 17 14:23:21 <dabbott>	once approved I can move it
Jan 17 14:23:24 <quantumsummers>	that could be a bit touchy
Jan 17 14:23:38 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, heh
Jan 17 14:24:02 <quantumsummers>	just saying
Jan 17 14:24:10 <quantumsummers>	:)
Jan 17 14:24:11 <NeddySeagoon>	any more changes?
Jan 17 14:24:34 <quantumsummers>	we can't say we're not-for-profit yet
Jan 17 14:24:45 <quantumsummers>	well maybe we can
Jan 17 14:24:50 <quantumsummers>	I'll ask Karen
Jan 17 14:25:01 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, we have been saying it for years ... why stop now ?
Jan 17 14:25:09 <quantumsummers>	good point
Jan 17 14:25:30 <dabbott>	I just copied it from some other document :)
Jan 17 14:25:43 <quantumsummers>	ok, looks generally good to me
Jan 17 14:25:50 *	NeddySeagoon proposes that the page be commited to foundation space with the one change above
Jan 17 14:25:52 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, ask Karen
Jan 17 14:26:08 *	quantumsummers seconds the proposal from NeddySeagoon
Jan 17 14:26:09 <robbat2>	+1
Jan 17 14:26:14 <dabbott>	+1
Jan 17 14:26:17 <NeddySeagoon>	+1
Jan 17 14:26:18 <quantumsummers>	+1
Jan 17 14:26:21 <quantumsummers>	& done
Jan 17 14:26:26 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Jan 17 14:26:58 <NeddySeagoon>	next  Donation and Vendor Advertising Policy and Guidelines - NeddySeagoon 
Jan 17 14:27:01 <quantumsummers>	ok so its s/directed/supported
Jan 17 14:27:10 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, yes
Jan 17 14:27:20 <quantumsummers>	please continue sir
Jan 17 14:27:42 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, I was afraid you would say that 
Jan 17 14:28:19 <quantumsummers>	this policy could be a tad large for one person
Jan 17 14:28:44 <quantumsummers>	I can ask Karen to assist, might be good to have a lawyer looking over things like this
Jan 17 14:28:48 <NeddySeagoon>	I've been slacking, so I've done nothing :(  Now we have the vote re large users from our members I really need to do something
Jan 17 14:29:27 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, a policy should be a small document.  The detail for implementing it might be large
Jan 17 14:30:09 <quantumsummers>	<0.02> we need to be really careful here. I have been following some discussion on this on a mail list that some of the large foss folks are on. I am concerned people feel that we are selling advertising
Jan 17 14:30:17 <NeddySeagoon>	I will email some ideas to trustees@ by the end of January
Jan 17 14:30:36 <quantumsummers>	ok, sounds good
Jan 17 14:30:58 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: didi you see the research I had done on other models?
Jan 17 14:31:01 <NeddySeagoon>	Who is <0.02> ?
Jan 17 14:31:03 <robbat2>	quantumsummers, re that, for each of the infra sponsors, i've tried to have some text as to what they do with Gentoo on the sponsors page
Jan 17 14:31:08 <quantumsummers>	2 cents tag
Jan 17 14:31:08 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, yes
Jan 17 14:31:36 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: yes, we need things like that so as not to appear that we are "selling out"
Jan 17 14:31:59 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, yes - agreed - I don't want it to be perceived as selling advertising
Jan 17 14:32:21 <quantumsummers>	I was surprised by some responses. It seems a sematic difference not one of substance
Jan 17 14:32:35 <quantumsummers>	anyhow, its all on phrasing
Jan 17 14:32:42 <quantumsummers>	*in phrasing
Jan 17 14:32:58 <quantumsummers>	we need more PR peeps
Jan 17 14:33:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Not to get bogged down - I would like large users to put something on our site as to how large and in what capacity they use gentoo
Jan 17 14:33:37 <quantumsummers>	put that in your policy notes
Jan 17 14:33:47 <NeddySeagoon>	before they get sidebar space
Jan 17 14:33:52 <dabbott>	exactly
Jan 17 14:33:54 <quantumsummers>	we can discuss things on the KM so we have it for posterity
Jan 17 14:34:03 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, yep
Jan 17 14:34:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Moving on  Special Member Voting - Ads On The Sidebar
Jan 17 14:35:02 <quantumsummers>	are we still waiting on jmbsvicetto for the official results?
Jan 17 14:35:07 <dabbott>	seemed like an election in Florida
Jan 17 14:36:07 <NeddySeagoon>	The official result was 46 votes in favour vs 6 votes against
Jan 17 14:36:13 <quantumsummers>	ok, good
Jan 17 14:37:12 <NeddySeagoon>	from  Gentoo Foundation Referendum 2009-01 - Results 2010.01.12 02:17 by jmbsvicetto AT gentoo.org>
Jan 17 14:37:31 <quantumsummers>	Once we have the policy in place, we can draft a news item & get the ball rolling, eh?
Jan 17 14:37:38 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Jan 17 14:37:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda item 4 Open Bugs 
Jan 17 14:38:33 <NeddySeagoon>	#284224 
Jan 17 14:38:49 <jmbsvicetto>	quantumsummers / NeddySeagoon: http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev-announce/msg_df4b02f3c8b25dd3e4e5aa19a45633be.xml - if you want a link to the official mail
Jan 17 14:38:58 <robbat2>	Willikins, bug 284224 
Jan 17 14:39:02 <Willikins>	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/284224 "Summer of Code changes in reimbursement"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jan 17 14:39:04 <NeddySeagoon>	jmbsvicetto, thanks
Jan 17 14:39:09 <quantumsummers>	jmbsvicetto: we got it, my bad on poking you. Thanks!!!
Jan 17 14:39:20 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks robbat2 
Jan 17 14:39:56 <quantumsummers>	it appears we are waiting for Google at this time on that bug. Carry it over to next meeting
Jan 17 14:40:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Willikins, bug 288626
Jan 17 14:40:57 <Willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/288626 "[Gentoo 10 Live DVD] Vendor List"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; ASSI; dabbott@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jan 17 14:41:42 <dabbott>	If we need DVD's Jason from stormfront said he would do them 10% over cost
Jan 17 14:41:47 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm not keen on a printed handbook - it will be out of date as soon as its printed
Jan 17 14:41:53 <quantumsummers>	I agree
Jan 17 14:42:27 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, sounds good.
Jan 17 14:43:19 <NeddySeagoon>	We should make a point of doing DVD giveaways for any gatherings where we have a stand - and T-shirts for people manning the stand.  
Jan 17 14:43:30 <quantumsummers>	I like the sound of that
Jan 17 14:43:59 <dabbott>	likewhoa should be getting 10.2 done soon ready for testing
Jan 17 14:44:06 <NeddySeagoon>	Like its auto approved ... without going through the normal application process
Jan 17 14:44:07 <quantumsummers>	Nice!
Jan 17 14:44:29 <quantumsummers>	the only thing with the tshirts is cost.
Jan 17 14:44:41 <NeddySeagoon>	There are only a few things a year like that
Jan 17 14:44:57 <quantumsummers>	true, but they are ~$25
Jan 17 14:45:03 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, its a professional touch on the stand
Jan 17 14:45:04 <quantumsummers>	which is nuts
Jan 17 14:45:24 <quantumsummers>	I agree we should have tshirts, however I think we can get a better deal.
Jan 17 14:45:29 <robbat2>	with past events of Gentoo i've been to. it's all been that one person gets the shirts and we each just paid them back for however many shirts we pre-ordered
Jan 17 14:45:42 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, how many people do we have manning stands ?
Jan 17 14:45:45 <robbat2>	there were 3 generations of shirts i've seen
Jan 17 14:46:06 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: I am not sure
Jan 17 14:46:14 <robbat2>	vapier's golf shirts, german conspiracy's branded mid-length sleeve t-shirts, and then their plain gentoo t's
Jan 17 14:46:25 <NeddySeagoon>	lets park it for now ...
Jan 17 14:46:30 <quantumsummers>	I am comfortable going ahead for the short term
Jan 17 14:46:36 <robbat2>	the german conspiracy had dev names on the back, maybe find out their costs for those?
Jan 17 14:46:49 <quantumsummers>	though at some point we need to reconsider IMO
Jan 17 14:47:25 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: sounds good
Jan 17 14:47:37 <NeddySeagoon>	anyway - we are wandering off the agenda
Jan 17 14:48:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Willikins, bug 296492
Jan 17 14:48:02 <Willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296492 ""Agenda" links are wrong"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; tove@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jan 17 14:48:27 <dabbott>	the links are fixed
Jan 17 14:48:27 <NeddySeagoon>	can we close this bug ?
Jan 17 14:48:29 <quantumsummers>	I like what robbat2 suggests here
Jan 17 14:48:38 <NeddySeagoon>	me too
Jan 17 14:48:49 <robbat2>	i need to do it then
Jan 17 14:48:59 <quantumsummers>	yes please :)
Jan 17 14:49:15 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, we'll keep this bug open then
Jan 17 14:49:51 <NeddySeagoon>	Willikins, bug 296766
Jan 17 14:49:52 <Willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jan 17 14:50:33 <quantumsummers>	tsunam: please let us know what is up with this item. There is no change here http://www.nmprc.state.nm.us/cgi-bin/prcdtl.cgi?2463313+GENTOO+FOUNDATION+INC//
Jan 17 14:50:40 <NeddySeagoon>	lets hold this over until April, in case there are more changes in directors
Jan 17 14:50:44 <quantumsummers>	ok
Jan 17 14:50:55 <quantumsummers>	I thought he submitted the forms already
Jan 17 14:51:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Although, thats fmccors address ...
Jan 17 14:51:17 <quantumsummers>	it needs to be changed
Jan 17 14:52:11 <NeddySeagoon>	yes - but does it need to be done before April ?
Jan 17 14:52:25 <quantumsummers>	not likely.
Jan 17 14:52:53 <NeddySeagoon>	Willikins, bug 296878
Jan 17 14:52:55 <Willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296878 "LWN.net group subscription"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; tove@g.o:trustees@g.o
Jan 17 14:54:01 <NeddySeagoon>	What is LWN.net and how would funding subscriptions fit into the foundations stated purpose ?
Jan 17 14:54:32 <quantumsummers>	linux weekly news
Jan 17 14:54:37 <dabbott>	http://lwn.net/
Jan 17 14:56:21 <NeddySeagoon>	 how would funding subscriptions fit into the foundations stated purpose ?
Jan 17 14:57:44 <quantumsummers>	hmm, difficult to say. I do know that sec vulns are published there, but I have not used lwn much
Jan 17 14:58:05 <NeddySeagoon>	I vote no, as I don't see news like this helping FOSS
Jan 17 14:58:41 <robbat2>	a no from me as well, per my comment on the bug
Jan 17 14:59:01 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, quantumsummers a vote please
Jan 17 14:59:03 *	quantumsummers votes no
Jan 17 14:59:29 <dabbott>	no
Jan 17 15:00:04 <NeddySeagoon>	bug defeated - the foundation will not fund subscriptions
Jan 17 15:00:12 <NeddySeagoon>	brb
Jan 17 15:03:51 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda Item 5 New Business  - we need to skip this as tsunam isn't here
Jan 17 15:04:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 6 Membership Applications 
Jan 17 15:04:26 <dabbott>	we can do the Trusrees part
Jan 17 15:04:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Gentoo Developers ... 
Jan 17 15:04:40 <dabbott>	*Trustees
Jan 17 15:04:47 <quantumsummers>	reload the page NeddySeagoon
Jan 17 15:05:05 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, thanks
Jan 17 15:05:11 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
Jan 17 15:05:32 <dabbott>	yw, just reminders
Jan 17 15:05:33 *	bonsaikitten (n=quassel@gentoo/developer/bonsaikitten) has joined #gentoo-trustees
Jan 17 15:05:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Trustees 
Jan 17 15:06:43 <NeddySeagoon>	We need to set a recording date for the Election - thats the cut off for setting the voters list.   I propose 31 Jan 2010 as thats a Sunday and just before nomination open
Jan 17 15:07:10 <NeddySeagoon>	everything else on the agenda is as usual
Jan 17 15:07:27 <quantumsummers>	I second the proposal from NeddySeagoon
Jan 17 15:07:42 <NeddySeagoon>	+1
Jan 17 15:07:47 <quantumsummers>	+1
Jan 17 15:07:47 <dabbott>	+1
Jan 17 15:07:56 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, ?
Jan 17 15:07:58 <robbat2>	+1
Jan 17 15:08:42 <NeddySeagoon>	carried.  I'll speak to elections to get something set up and put out an email to canvass new members.
Jan 17 15:09:32 <NeddySeagoon>	We might need a special meeting on 31 jan - can everyone do that - just to consider new member applications.  We and do it byu email if possible
Jan 17 15:09:46 <quantumsummers>	I can
Jan 17 15:09:53 <dabbott>	ok by me
Jan 17 15:10:10 <robbat2>	+1
Jan 17 15:10:15 <NeddySeagoon>	ok 19:00 on 31 Jan if needed
Jan 17 15:10:22 <quantumsummers>	ok.
Jan 17 15:10:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Gentoo Store Financial Report ... needs tsunam 
Jan 17 15:10:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda Item 6 Membership Applications
Jan 17 15:11:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Gentoo Developers
Jan 17 15:11:56 <NeddySeagoon>	All in favour
Jan 17 15:11:58 <NeddySeagoon>	+1
Jan 17 15:11:59 <dabbott>	yes
Jan 17 15:12:02 <quantumsummers>	aye
Jan 17 15:12:09 <robbat2>	+1
Jan 17 15:12:15 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Jan 17 15:12:17 <quantumsummers>	added to list going out today
Jan 17 15:12:29 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, please add them to the list to be notified
Jan 17 15:12:41 <quantumsummers>	done
Jan 17 15:12:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 7 Date of Next Meeting  21th Feb 2010 19:00 UTC
Jan 17 15:13:10 <dabbott>	ok here
Jan 17 15:13:13 <quantumsummers>	works for me
Jan 17 15:13:14 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 17 15:13:33 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, ?
Jan 17 15:13:42 <quantumsummers>	good to keep it away from the girl holiday
Jan 17 15:13:49 <robbat2>	+1
Jan 17 15:13:56 <NeddySeagoon>	girl holiday ?
Jan 17 15:14:04 <quantumsummers>	Valentine's Day
Jan 17 15:14:08 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe
Jan 17 15:14:16 <quantumsummers>	my wife would killl me
Jan 17 15:14:23 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 7 Any other business ...
Jan 17 15:14:26 <quantumsummers>	yes that was kill with 3 ls
Jan 17 15:14:29 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, ?
Jan 17 15:14:57 <quantumsummers>	no AOB from me other than iCoalesce: use it lemme know if you have questions/problems
Jan 17 15:15:03 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jan 17 15:15:07 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, ?
Jan 17 15:15:31 <dabbott>	no, just if quantumsummers could look into the email storage options
Jan 17 15:15:40 *	quantumsummers will do it
Jan 17 15:15:43 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, 
Jan 17 15:15:57 <robbat2>	none from me at this time
Jan 17 15:16:15 <NeddySeagoon>	none from me
Jan 17 15:16:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 9  Open Floor
Jan 17 15:16:29 <quantumsummers>	we did this meeting in record time :D
Jan 17 15:16:58 *	quantumsummers will brb
Jan 17 15:17:56 *	NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
