20:21  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to start the 17 October 2010 meeting of The Gentoo Foundation Inc trustees.
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> roll call
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, dabbott robbat2|na 
20:22 <@dabbott> here
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm logging
20:22 <@quantumsummers> present
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, sends apologies 
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> we have a quorum, so lets start
20:23 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 3 Old Business
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Registration New Mexico  dabbott do you have some news ?
20:24 <@dabbott> I have not heard anything
20:24 <@quantumsummers> we have less than one month to get that filed
20:24 <@quantumsummers> I have the original sent from Mr. Chew
20:25 <@dabbott> The last I heard anything was the email from tsunam 
20:25 <@quantumsummers> same\
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> As over a month has passed, I think its fair to assume that tsunam did not post the docs, or they have been lost.  We can't wait until November.  Can someone call tsunam please
20:25 <@quantumsummers> I can
20:25 <@dabbott> thanks quantumsummers 
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks.  
20:25 <@quantumsummers> if he is unable to perform this task, we must have 2 signatures on the doc
20:26 <@quantumsummers> the treasurer and secretary
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> follow up to the alias, or in here.  We cannot wait until the next meeting
20:26 <@dabbott> I can sign if needed
20:26 <@quantumsummers> Perhaps we need to appoint an interim treasurer to accomplish this
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> the treasurer *is* tsunam 
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I know.
20:27 <@dabbott> he should be able to do it
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I will talk with him
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> lets see if tsunam answers the 'phone
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Next item   miranda.dev.gentoo.org funding     this seems to have gone quiet
20:28 <@quantumsummers> needs to be done, however without access to funds it is quite impossible
20:28 <@dabbott> I will leave it on the agenda for robbat2's input
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Has there been feedback from solar ?   My email has been giving problems, so I may have missed it
20:29  * quantumsummers is talking to Josh
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> we need timescales and a location for a miranda.dev.gentoo.org replacement
20:30 <@dabbott> nothing since the original and then I think we got one with the updated price robbat2 said was going to be too much
20:30 <@quantumsummers> he says next week he will send it
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, that was a different isue
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> +s
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok, we can wait until the end of October for NM to update the site
20:31 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:32 <@dabbott> ok
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> any more on  miranda ?   I think robbat2|na was trying to find a home as we don't have power at OSL
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers your bit
20:33 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: yes that is my understanding also
20:33 <@quantumsummers> just a sec, still talking to Josh
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> SFLC Questions (Software Freedom Law Center) 
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok
20:37 <@quantumsummers> alrighty
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I hope you didn't get him out of bed, its only just after 11:00am where he lives
20:37 <@quantumsummers> so, Josh send his best to everyone, he is feeling somewhat better, and hopes to return in 30-60 days
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> thats good
20:38 <@dabbott> +1
20:38 <@quantumsummers> he is sending me a checkbook, and he promised to send the paperwork to NM, certified, next week. I will follow up
20:38 <@dabbott> again thanks quantumsummers 
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks quantumsummers 
20:38 <@quantumsummers> that is about it. 
20:38 <@quantumsummers> ok, so sflc, I have a bunch of stuff so I will dpaste the thing
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, 
20:39 <@quantumsummers> or better, I will email real quick
20:39 <@dabbott> ok
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> err my email is bust dpaste preferred
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm learning to use mutt via ssh while I fix it
20:40 <@dabbott> I just forward to a gmail account helps with spam
20:40 <@quantumsummers> http://pastebin.com/KbVmgGDK
20:40 <@quantumsummers> its in your email too
20:41  * NeddySeagoon reads
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> do we have Neddy's CashSponsorsPolicy_Draft.xml on www.g.o?  Nope, its my my devspace
20:42 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: I will get started on the patches for .xml later today, just slacking anyway
20:42 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: I can provide the patch, if you wish.
20:42 <@dabbott> ok better yet
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> NO, perhaps change disclaimer a bit ... linux.com has decent example.  Can we just lift it ?  Did the SFLC have a hand in it ?
20:42 <@quantumsummers> can you put neddys thing in there?
20:42 <@quantumsummers> we can lift it.
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> The SFLC said thats OK ?
20:43 <@quantumsummers> sflc approves
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:43 <@quantumsummers> legal disclaimers are not copywritable
20:44 <@quantumsummers> anyway, so with those changes, we have our full package for 501c3 pretty much done
20:44 <@quantumsummers> also, I would like to get Robin's copy for the infra piece before going live
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we fix 37 to require only scanned and emailed receipts of is that not good enough ?
20:46 <@quantumsummers> fine by me
20:47 <@quantumsummers> These receipts can be mailed to the Foundation treasurer (or acting treasurer) in hard-copy form or scanned and sent via email to {{trustees@}}.
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers but is it ok for audits?   In the UK, you need the paper copy still unless it was an all electronic transaction, e.g. air tickets
20:47 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: do you have a link for CashSponsorsPolicy_Draft.xml
20:48 <@quantumsummers> http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/CashSponsorsPolicy_Draft.xml
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, heh, you found it faster than me
20:49 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: As a general rule, yes.
20:49 <@quantumsummers> re: audits that is
20:50 <@quantumsummers> its like a faxed copy, that is good enough
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, lets keep thinks electronic if we can.  It saves passing boxes of paperwork around the world when officers change
20:51 <@quantumsummers> anything else re: sflc?
20:51 <@quantumsummers> OIN, we are still deferring until Nov.
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't think so - that looks pretty comprehensive
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> fine.
20:52 <@quantumsummers> libbash, I have not taken care of yet
20:52 <@quantumsummers> apologies
20:52 <@quantumsummers> we have to have a contributor agreement to assign
20:52 <@quantumsummers> I need to get one from sflc, noting that now
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> you were going to update one from your wife, iirc ...
20:53 <@quantumsummers> yes, it is insufficient
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:53 <@dabbott> The contributor is Nathen, not sure of his full name
20:54 <@quantumsummers> ok, I will talk to Betelgeuse about this as soon as I get a doc from sflc
20:54 <@quantumsummers> added to the todo list
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:54 <@dabbott> perfect
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Accountant Team Progress
20:54 <+Betelgeuse> dabbott: s/Nathen/Nathan/
20:54 <@quantumsummers> there has been no action on this since the last meeting, I have been swamped
20:55 <@quantumsummers> added to the todo list
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Can someone else help ?  I don't want our new found help to think they are not needed
20:55 <@quantumsummers> sure!
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> An email to let them know they are not forgotten would be good
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, who and how ?
20:57 <@quantumsummers> who ever volunteers, and we can get them collaborating on the summary, of which I have approx 30% completed
20:57 <@quantumsummers> summary/timeline
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I have a little time ...  but I don't know the paperwork
20:58 <@quantumsummers> I'll get the ball rolling with you and the team early next week
20:58 <@quantumsummers> the paperwork is well described
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, Larry Graphics Contest Update
20:59 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: ok or delegate to one of them the one that seems most interested
20:59 <@dabbott> or + and
20:59 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: yes, it would be ideal if they led themselves a bit
20:59 <@dabbott> Not much interest in the contest :(
21:00 <@dabbott> only one entry, I may have to do it again
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Does it need a relaunch ?
21:00 <@quantumsummers> we could just use what we have, its pretty iconic as it stands now.
21:00 <@dabbott> I have only had one person even ask about how it was going etc
21:01 <@quantumsummers> do we have the larry head in svg?
21:01 <@NeddySeagoon> with only one entrant ?
21:01 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: yes http://dev.gentoo.org/~a3li/larry.svg
21:02 <@quantumsummers> let just use that, its cool imo :D
21:02 <@quantumsummers> minimalist cool
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> whatever we use, we need to register the make
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> mark*
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 4 Bugs   Corrections to corporation filing Bug 296766    covered above
21:03 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
21:03 <@quantumsummers> this will be closed upon Josh's filing
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Internship Confirmation ...  oachim Bartosik (ahenobarbi)
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> what does this mean ?
21:04 <@dabbott> Joachim wanted a document for school I think
21:04 <@quantumsummers> a note that he participated in gsoc?
21:05 <@quantumsummers> or what?
21:05 <@quantumsummers> anyone have the email messgage id handy?
21:06 <@quantumsummers> Betelgeuse Betelgeuse Betelgeuse
21:07 <@quantumsummers> yeah, so he wants to do an "internship" for school with gentoo, Betelgeuse as his mentor would be responsible for the logging of hours, and signature
21:07 <@dabbott> I have it here http://paste.pocoo.org/show/276710/
21:08 <@quantumsummers> I can handle foundation signing of an official doc, but I cannot read polish
21:09 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: thanks
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, the mail offers to send an official translation
21:10 <@quantumsummers> would be great
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, will you take it up with Joachim directly please
21:10 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: ok.
21:11 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: do you want me to forward you that email
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6   Membership Applications
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Gentoo Developers
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon>  Rafael Goncalves Martins (rafaelmartins)
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon>  Dane Smith (c1pher)
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote aye
21:11 <@quantumsummers> Motion: approve both Rafael Goncalves Martins (rafaelmartins) and Dane Smith (c1pher)
21:11 <@dabbott> Yes to both
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
21:12 <@quantumsummers> whoa, lag
21:12 <@quantumsummers> yes to both
21:12 <@quantumsummers> recorded
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> carried.  Can someone write to them please, my email is bust
21:12 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: would you mind?
21:12 <@dabbott> sure
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 8 Date of Next Meeting - 21st Nov 2010 19:00 UTC
21:12 <@quantumsummers> I do not have my signing key on this tmp bpx
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, thanks
21:13 <@quantumsummers> thanks David
21:13 <@dabbott> np date is fine here
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> My email client has a memory and CPU leak ... it fetches 5 mails before the OOM kills it
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> works for me.
21:14 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: what client
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, balsa
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> 2.8.4
21:14 <@quantumsummers> yeah, that is bad behavior from an email clisnt
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you ok with the DoNM ?
21:15 <@quantumsummers> wfm
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 9  Any other business ... 
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> None from me
21:15 <@dabbott> none here
21:16 <@quantumsummers> None from me (that I can think of anyway)
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 10  Responsibilities
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log
21:16 <@dabbott> do we want to check back at the end of the month for NM just to check
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> ... but not tonight
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, we can't go into bad standing again.  We might just as well pack up if we do
21:17 <@dabbott> the 31 is the last day of the month and it is on a Sun
21:17 <@quantumsummers> That will not happen
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> well, 1st Nove then
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> -e
21:18 <@dabbott> I don't want to use Arch or some such
21:18 <@quantumsummers> I will  email when I talk with Josh again this week
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks
21:18 <@quantumsummers> If he doesn't send next week, we may have to take emergency action.
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 11  Open Floor
21:19 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yep
21:19  * dabbott wipes the sweat off his brow
21:19 <@quantumsummers> Good meeting y'all
21:19  * NeddySeagoon bangs he gavel to close the meeting
