Feb 21 14:00:01 *	NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel and calls the meeting to order
Feb 21 14:00:09 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call
Feb 21 14:00:44 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, quantumsummers|a tsunam dabbott 
Feb 21 14:00:52 <quantumsummers|a>	present
Feb 21 14:01:04 <dabbott>	here, but may get a phone call that I must take
Feb 21 14:01:11 *	quantumsummers|a wasn't late afterall
Feb 21 14:01:17 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, ok
Feb 21 14:01:41 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, tsunam ?
Feb 21 14:01:55 <NeddySeagoon>	we will give them a few minutes
Feb 21 14:02:00 <quantumsummers|a>	ok
Feb 21 14:02:12 <NeddySeagoon>	who is loggining ?
Feb 21 14:02:32 <robbat2>	hi
Feb 21 14:02:34 <NeddySeagoon>	It looks like I am
Feb 21 14:02:38 <robbat2>	logging as usual too
Feb 21 14:02:41 <dabbott>	I am also
Feb 21 14:02:50 <NeddySeagoon>	We have 4, lets start
Feb 21 14:03:27 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda Item 3 Old Business ... we will come back to tsunams stuff
Feb 21 14:03:55 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers SFLC Update and CPA quotes
Feb 21 14:04:17 <quantumsummers|a>	alright
Feb 21 14:05:05 <quantumsummers|a>	SFLC, I will contact them on Monday regarding the new fun we have discovered. Further, I have started requesting letters of support from a broad range of people & orgs.
Feb 21 14:05:28 <quantumsummers|a>	I would like to put up a news item with a request for letters of support as well
Feb 21 14:06:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Sure ... do we need a vote on that ?
Feb 21 14:06:05 <quantumsummers|a>	I still have work to do on the budget, & would like some input from all of you. Esp. regarding infra needs
Feb 21 14:06:21 <robbat2>	+1 on putting up an actual request
Feb 21 14:06:21 <quantumsummers|a>	sure, can't hurt
Feb 21 14:06:45 <quantumsummers|a>	Motion: News item requesting letters of support for our 501c3 app
Feb 21 14:06:51 <robbat2>	aye
Feb 21 14:06:54 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Feb 21 14:07:00 <dabbott>	yes
Feb 21 14:07:05 <quantumsummers|a>	aye
Feb 21 14:07:06 <quantumsummers|a>	thanks
Feb 21 14:07:18 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, do letters of support carry any weight with the IRS ?
Feb 21 14:07:24 <quantumsummers|a>	I will write it up tomorrow & email a draft to the alias for review
Feb 21 14:07:51 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Feb 21 14:07:54 <quantumsummers|a>	NeddySeagoon: yes. I am seeking a broad range, from individuals, businesses and non-profilts like universities
Feb 21 14:08:11 <NeddySeagoon>	OK.  Understood
Feb 21 14:08:13 <quantumsummers|a>	so we have MIT on board, and D'Youvelle College
Feb 21 14:08:32 <quantumsummers|a>	there are some others that I have spoken with as well from the business sector
Feb 21 14:08:40 <quantumsummers|a>	I plan on asking some of our sponsors as well
Feb 21 14:08:42 <NeddySeagoon>	Sounds like a good thing to do then
Feb 21 14:08:44 <quantumsummers|a>	Asking OSL too
Feb 21 14:08:45 <robbat2>	i've got an status report related to that later, where that news item I foresee as helping a lot
Feb 21 14:09:16 <quantumsummers|a>	excellent
Feb 21 14:10:01 <quantumsummers|a>	re: CPA, I have spoken with both parties, and been told that since it is tax time now, we have a bit longer to wait as everyone is quite busy.
Feb 21 14:10:36 <quantumsummers|a>	However, I will keep up with both parties on a weekly basis to ascertain progress 
Feb 21 14:10:59 <NeddySeagoon>	OK.  Does that mean its our tax time now too or are we too small
Feb 21 14:11:00 <quantumsummers|a>	There is no real rush for us, so I think this is acceptable
Feb 21 14:11:18 <quantumsummers|a>	we did not make enough $$ last year to worry about this
Feb 21 14:11:33 <NeddySeagoon>	We need to fix that then
Feb 21 14:11:35 <quantumsummers|a>	Regardless, we can file an extension.
Feb 21 14:11:42 <quantumsummers|a>	If we need to
Feb 21 14:11:56 <NeddySeagoon>	making the $$$ I mean :)
Feb 21 14:12:02 <NeddySeagoon>	any more quantumsummers|a ?
Feb 21 14:12:09 <quantumsummers|a>	we have 60 days to figure this out. I will take this up in conversation next week
Feb 21 14:12:16 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Feb 21 14:12:27 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, rotating sidebar
Feb 21 14:12:30 <quantumsummers|a>	no, nothing more, save to say I agree that we need to raise more moiney
Feb 21 14:13:24 <robbat2>	i've got a local test copy that i've been populating/testing, but the largest surprise to me
Feb 21 14:13:34 <robbat2>	has been that our other sponsors that aren't on the sidebar
Feb 21 14:13:39 <robbat2>	that i've approached to get added
Feb 21 14:13:56 <robbat2>	the overwhelming reaction has been one of indifference or no response at all
Feb 21 14:14:21 <NeddySeagoon>	Hmm. I guess they think there is no advantage in being there
Feb 21 14:14:56 <robbat2>	of 7 I approached, only 2 want in
Feb 21 14:15:16 <quantumsummers|a>	in that case I think we just need to give notice of what we are doing & put them all in there.
Feb 21 14:15:18 <robbat2>	and one of those two, while i've asked for a logo image repeatedly, there's been nothing
Feb 21 14:15:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Times are hard, advertising budgets are being cut
Feb 21 14:15:41 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, agreed
Feb 21 14:15:44 <robbat2>	advertising budgets being cut should mean they are more willing to get exposure, not less
Feb 21 14:16:05 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, you would think so
Feb 21 14:16:06 <quantumsummers|a>	robbat2: can you provide a list of who you contactes?
Feb 21 14:16:10 <quantumsummers|a>	*contacted
Feb 21 14:16:18 <robbat2>	yup, I can assemble a list and send to the alias
Feb 21 14:16:32 <quantumsummers|a>	thanks]
Feb 21 14:16:37 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, when will the rotating sidebar be ready to go live ?
Feb 21 14:16:46 <quantumsummers|a>	I will put that into the donor management thing
Feb 21 14:17:12 <robbat2>	unless RL issues catch me, i'm hoping for within the next 3 weeks
Feb 21 14:17:19 <robbat2>	but i've got a number of other Gentoo things going on too
Feb 21 14:17:32 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, before our next meeting then ?
Feb 21 14:17:33 <robbat2>	hardware, bugzilla3, new mirror tool etc :-)
Feb 21 14:17:49 <quantumsummers|a>	robbat2: I am happy to assist, I do make a business of this exact sort of deployment
Feb 21 14:17:50 <dabbott>	g-cpan :)
Feb 21 14:18:10 <robbat2>	mysql 5.1 is out the way now, so that's one thing done
Feb 21 14:18:17 <quantumsummers|a>	nice work on that
Feb 21 14:18:56 <robbat2>	anyway, in how that ties into quantumsummers's request for support letters
Feb 21 14:19:04 <NeddySeagoon>	lets leave the target as the date of our March meeting - we will discuss it then anyway
Feb 21 14:19:13 <robbat2>	is that i've approached a few other orgs I've interacted with, and there is also indifference there
Feb 21 14:19:27 <dabbott>	robbat2, that is strange
Feb 21 14:19:30 <robbat2>	so I want to make the request more formal
Feb 21 14:19:55 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, sounds good
Feb 21 14:20:06 <quantumsummers|a>	Ok. great. I am willing to contact these people personally
Feb 21 14:20:18 <robbat2>	that's all from me
Feb 21 14:20:20 <quantumsummers|a>	via phone perhaps once we have the news item up
Feb 21 14:20:29 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Feb 21 14:20:51 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott Conference Funding Form
Feb 21 14:21:30 <dabbott>	please review , just a form to add to the bug report
Feb 21 14:21:50 <quantumsummers|a>	looks good to me
Feb 21 14:21:59 <robbat2>	can we fix the spelling of dev names ;-)?
Feb 21 14:22:16 <robbat2>	and have that one as the example, with an actual blank one for devs to fill
Feb 21 14:22:20 <quantumsummers|a>	lol, dabbott, you often call robbat2 rabbat
Feb 21 14:22:56 <dabbott>	ok will fix
Feb 21 14:23:02 <NeddySeagoon>	heh. I've nothing to add to the above. 
Feb 21 14:23:08 <quantumsummers|a>	Would it be appropriate to request that the participants write something up after the event for us to post?
Feb 21 14:23:27 <quantumsummers|a>	perhaps the actual requester should be charged with the responsibility
Feb 21 14:23:34 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, good idea - a news item for the front page
Feb 21 14:23:37 <quantumsummers|a>	this may assist in PR efforts
Feb 21 14:23:37 <robbat2>	i like the sound of that
Feb 21 14:24:01 <quantumsummers|a>	request or require>?
Feb 21 14:24:21 <quantumsummers|a>	we could make it a condition of the funding
Feb 21 14:24:35 <quantumsummers|a>	nothing terribly burdensome, of course
Feb 21 14:24:43 <NeddySeagoon>	strongly request - we would not stop funding events because of lcak of a news item and there is no way to enforce it
Feb 21 14:25:09 <quantumsummers|a>	could apply a slacker mark possibly
Feb 21 14:25:15 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, isn't that cutting off our nose to spite our face ?
Feb 21 14:25:26 <quantumsummers|a>	probably
Feb 21 14:25:40 <dabbott>	ok I will add is as a request and send the updated form example and blank form to trustees@ for review
Feb 21 14:25:47 <quantumsummers|a>	just thinking it through, I am not advocating for a requirement
Feb 21 14:25:53 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, fix the form and post in in foundation webspace 
Feb 21 14:26:02 <dabbott>	ok
Feb 21 14:26:05 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, we trust you
Feb 21 14:26:08 <quantumsummers|a>	thanks dabbott
Feb 21 14:26:59 <NeddySeagoon>	neddyseagoon Donation and Vendor Advertising Policy and Guidelines
Feb 21 14:27:13 <NeddySeagoon>	I've added robbat2 comments today
Feb 21 14:27:29 <quantumsummers|a>	the char limit is currently 50, not 32
Feb 21 14:27:38 <quantumsummers|a>	though that is trivial to change
Feb 21 14:27:53 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll update the doc
Feb 21 14:28:29 <quantumsummers|a>	ok, 50 seems more reasonable. They can submit longer but it will be truncated at 50 with a ... following
Feb 21 14:29:20 <NeddySeagoon>	30->50 done
Feb 21 14:29:31 <quantumsummers|a>	the algorithm used in determining what is shown is a simple weighted random subset method
Feb 21 14:29:50 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, sould I add that in ?
Feb 21 14:29:51 <quantumsummers|a>	err, simple ramdon weighted subset, more properly
Feb 21 14:29:56 <quantumsummers|a>	*randome
Feb 21 14:29:59 <quantumsummers|a>	wow
Feb 21 14:30:18 <quantumsummers|a>	NeddySeagoon: doesn't matter to me, if you wish to do so, then by all means
Feb 21 14:31:00 <quantumsummers|a>	the code is publicly available as well on git.overlays.g.o
Feb 21 14:31:09 <quantumsummers|a>	proj/gentoo-ads.git
Feb 21 14:32:20 <quantumsummers|a>	its also likely that somebody, perhaps me, should style the output a little better
Feb 21 14:32:22 <NeddySeagoon>	updated
Feb 21 14:32:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need a vote on the policy adoption ?
Feb 21 14:33:10 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion to adopt http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/CashSponsorsPolicy_Draft.xml as our policy for large users
Feb 21 14:33:26 <quantumsummers|a>	I think we should consider this a first draft. I would really like to run this by the sflc before we set it in stone
Feb 21 14:33:28 <NeddySeagoon>	wishing to place ads on gentoo.org
Feb 21 14:33:44 <quantumsummers|a>	perhaps a disclainer that we may change this policy
Feb 21 14:33:54 <quantumsummers|a>	or refine it over time
Feb 21 14:33:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion denied
Feb 21 14:34:01 <quantumsummers|a>	sorry NeddySeagoon
Feb 21 14:34:27 <quantumsummers|a>	Given what other OSS nfps have, I think we need to take more time
Feb 21 14:34:28 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, good idea ... I'll add that.
Feb 21 14:35:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda item 4 Open Bugs
Feb 21 14:36:02 <quantumsummers|a>	I was looking at PSF (python) I think, they had a nice disclaimer explicitly stating that one could not buy a link, but had to demonstrate use to be considered a supporter. We have something close to that now, but just a thought as explicit is better than implicit
Feb 21 14:36:16 <quantumsummers|a>	yes, please cont.
Feb 21 14:36:52 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 284224
Feb 21 14:36:56 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/284224 "Summer of Code changes in reimbursement"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 14:36:56 <quantumsummers|a>	I am going to call Josh.
Feb 21 14:37:06 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, good plan
Feb 21 14:37:36 <robbat2>	esp since this is the second meeting he's missed in a row
Feb 21 14:37:50 <quantumsummers|a>	he's jumping on now
Feb 21 14:37:55 <tsunam>	that I would be ~_~
Feb 21 14:38:04 <quantumsummers|a>	:D
Feb 21 14:38:15 <tsunam>	for some reason thought it was next week =/
Feb 21 14:38:19 <NeddySeagoon>	Denis Healey eyebrows ...
Feb 21 14:38:25 <quantumsummers|a>	lets give josh a few mins to read back ok?
Feb 21 14:38:55 <NeddySeagoon>	I was here last week, than I read /topic
Feb 21 14:39:02 *	quantumsummers|a has to attend to a roasting ham for a sec anyhow :)
Feb 21 14:40:27 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, we can do the stuff you missed now or slot it in after bugs.  Either way, it looks like its your turn
Feb 21 14:42:04 <tsunam>	caught up
Feb 21 14:42:20 <tsunam>	we've received the first check from Google for the Summer of Code changes
Feb 21 14:42:41 <tsunam>	second is still pending but hopefully before the middle of next month we should have those funds as well
Feb 21 14:43:11 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, thats progress.  We will stick with bugs
Feb 21 14:43:25 <tsunam>	k
Feb 21 14:43:26 <robbat2>	was the first cheque the backdated money or the 2009 money?
Feb 21 14:43:38 <tsunam>	2009
Feb 21 14:43:43 <robbat2>	thanks
Feb 21 14:43:48 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 296492
Feb 21 14:43:50 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296492 ""Agenda" links are wrong"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; tove@g.o:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 14:44:15 <dabbott>	that should be fixed afaik
Feb 21 14:45:01 <NeddySeagoon>	can someone close the bug - my normal browser is broken and I can't remember my bugsie passwd
Feb 21 14:45:02 <robbat2>	we already said last month to fix it, i just haven't changed all of them yet
Feb 21 14:45:17 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, leave the bug open then
Feb 21 14:45:24 <robbat2>	we should run a link checker over the foundation space maybe
Feb 21 14:45:46 <NeddySeagoon>	that sounds like a good ideA
Feb 21 14:46:02 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 296766
Feb 21 14:46:03 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 14:46:32 <robbat2>	last month we said to postpone that till after the election
Feb 21 14:46:45 <NeddySeagoon>	if the paperwork is not in the post, it may as well wait until the election is over
Feb 21 14:46:50 <tsunam>	as we'd have to file again with the changes if they should change
Feb 21 14:47:43 <NeddySeagoon>	yes
Feb 21 14:48:03 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 302508
Feb 21 14:48:05 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/302508 "Funding Request for SCALE LiveDVD's"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; solar@g.o:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 14:48:45 <robbat2>	too late for that one now, but long term we have the new conf funding doc
Feb 21 14:48:53 <robbat2>	to hopefully approve them faster
Feb 21 14:49:11 <quantumsummers|a>	yes, we can close this bug, perhaps link to the new request form
Feb 21 14:49:19 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Feb 21 14:49:37 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 304853
Feb 21 14:49:39 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; NEW; mihel@hotbox.ru:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 14:50:06 <quantumsummers|a>	lets see if anyone has larry graphics
Feb 21 14:50:18 <quantumsummers|a>	I do not know of any print quality versions
Feb 21 14:50:34 <NeddySeagoon>	ok - there are some on the site but I think they are small
Feb 21 14:50:53 <robbat2>	i saw a larger bitmap version on some media somewhere years ago, but I cannot recall where
Feb 21 14:51:07 <robbat2>	might have been a bootsplash or desktop bg in the media
Feb 21 14:51:08 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we want a competition or a news itesm asking for a graphic for a T-shirt ?
Feb 21 14:51:34 <quantumsummers|a>	sounds like a fine idea
Feb 21 14:52:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Both then - a news item annoucing the comptition
Feb 21 14:53:12 <dabbott>	I can do it it sort of ties into PR anyway
Feb 21 14:53:17 <NeddySeagoon>	We have the 10th anaversary stuff to draw on. 
Feb 21 14:53:21 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
Feb 21 14:53:42 <dabbott>	beandog has a new larry graphic I saw on his new site
Feb 21 14:54:24 <tsunam>	http://znurt.org/ <--talking about the one there?
Feb 21 14:54:25 <NeddySeagoon>	the competition will raise awareness, so its good from that point of view
Feb 21 14:54:46 <dabbott>	yea thats it
Feb 21 14:55:20 <robbat2>	znurt is the saucer
Feb 21 14:55:25 <NeddySeagoon>	do we what full cow or just a headshot
Feb 21 14:55:32 <tsunam>	yes but znurt is beaming up larry :-P
Feb 21 14:55:43 <tsunam>	I tend to like full cow larry
Feb 21 14:55:57 <dabbott>	with or without utter
Feb 21 14:56:15 <quantumsummers|a>	*udder ;)
Feb 21 14:56:18 <NeddySeagoon>	leave it to the competition entries to decide
Feb 21 14:56:38 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 305639
Feb 21 14:56:40 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/305639 "Reimbursement from infra budget: halcy0n for bender PSUs"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 14:56:59 <robbat2>	solar was wondering if dev boxes should be covered in the infra budget or not
Feb 21 14:57:05 <tsunam>	I need to send off a check still as halcyon specifically asked for a check
Feb 21 14:57:09 <robbat2>	or kept as seperate
Feb 21 14:57:25 <quantumsummers|a>	I see no issue with paying for this
Feb 21 14:57:40 <quantumsummers|a>	though keeping it out of the official infra budget is fine by me
Feb 21 14:57:41 <NeddySeagoon>	Anything we need to maintain should be in the infra budget
Feb 21 14:57:41 <robbat2>	yeah, merely which virtual bucket the money counts as from
Feb 21 14:57:49 <tsunam>	robbat2: infrastructure maintains all the hardware even the dev boxes so from my perspective it should go under their budget
Feb 21 14:58:02 <robbat2>	not all the dev boxes
Feb 21 14:58:13 <robbat2>	some of *.dev.g.o are directly housed/owned by devs
Feb 21 14:58:21 <NeddySeagoon>	that may mean the infra budget needs to be reviewed
Feb 21 14:59:03 <robbat2>	bender just happens to be at OSL
Feb 21 14:59:26 <robbat2>	of which, I need to get the photos of our gear at OSL up on a webpage
Feb 21 14:59:38 *	armin76 wants pics
Feb 21 14:59:44 <robbat2>	as i put labels on the items that are actually owned by the foundation
Feb 21 15:00:08 <robbat2>	when I was there a few months ago
Feb 21 15:00:24 <armin76>	robbat2: sent me teh pics!
Feb 21 15:00:27 <NeddySeagoon>	Any equipment we own or maintain needs to be under the infra budget.  Thats everything, routers UPS ...
Feb 21 15:00:29 <armin76>	send*
Feb 21 15:00:33 <tsunam>	which is very little actually for what we own
Feb 21 15:01:50 <NeddySeagoon>	I suppose it includes hardware donated to Gentoo too
Feb 21 15:02:17 <robbat2>	maybe rename it to be the Gentoo hardware maintenance budget
Feb 21 15:02:23 <robbat2>	rather than explicitly infra
Feb 21 15:02:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Sounds like a good idea
Feb 21 15:02:40 <robbat2>	does it leave us too open?
Feb 21 15:02:46 <robbat2>	that'd be my only concern
Feb 21 15:02:56 <robbat2>	but given the low level of requests, i don't think it's too much of a problem
Feb 21 15:03:26 <NeddySeagoon>	We can use that as a working title and add a definition when the budge is set, after the election
Feb 21 15:03:59 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 288626
Feb 21 15:04:01 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/288626 "[Gentoo 10 Live DVD] Vendor List"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; ASSI; dabbott@g.o:trustees@g.o
Feb 21 15:04:16 <robbat2>	*when the full foundation budget is set, up from the $1k/year that we set in May
Feb 21 15:04:27 <dabbott>	just information gathering 
Feb 21 15:04:36 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, yes I sit corrected
Feb 21 15:05:01 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I'm against a printed handbook - it will change too quickly
Feb 21 15:05:25 <dabbott>	yes I agree
Feb 21 15:06:30 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, Your share of agenda item 3 Updating Registration in NM, which I think we covered and OSUOSL Donation
Feb 21 15:06:48 <quantumsummers|a>	that OSL donation did go out?
Feb 21 15:07:04 <tsunam>	I sent it out last week. hasn't cleared yet 
Feb 21 15:07:16 <quantumsummers|a>	ok, thanks
Feb 21 15:07:21 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, what sort order were you using on bugs? we still need to touch bug #305341 (the locked one)
Feb 21 15:07:59 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, I went down all the bugs in the agenda item link
Feb 21 15:08:17 <robbat2>	the link just took your local bugzilla sort order
Feb 21 15:08:30 <NeddySeagoon>	 #305341 was not on the list :(
Feb 21 15:08:34 <robbat2>	were you logged in?
Feb 21 15:08:40 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, no
Feb 21 15:08:40 <quantumsummers|a>	its on mine :)
Feb 21 15:08:48 <dabbott>	thats it
Feb 21 15:09:12 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, I've forgotten my bugie password
Feb 21 15:09:24 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, use the reset link on the login page
Feb 21 15:09:30 <quantumsummers|a>	Motion: Vote to approve proposed infra aquisitions.
Feb 21 15:09:42 <robbat2>	*phase 1 of aqusitions
Feb 21 15:09:48 <robbat2>	*aquisitions
Feb 21 15:09:48 <dabbott>	yes
Feb 21 15:09:51 <robbat2>	aye
Feb 21 15:09:56 <tsunam>	aye
Feb 21 15:09:58 <quantumsummers|a>	Taco sent the email with the info
Feb 21 15:10:00 <quantumsummers|a>	aye
Feb 21 15:10:42 <quantumsummers|a>	$3435.02 USD 
Feb 21 15:10:46 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, the updated bug has the due diligence in pricing you requested btw
Feb 21 15:12:02 <quantumsummers|a>	that is actually $3485.02 USD 
Feb 21 15:12:20 <robbat2>	addition error?
Feb 21 15:12:43 <quantumsummers|a>	the one I was looking at omitted the "Installation Costs"
Feb 21 15:13:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugsie doesn't like me The token you submitted does not exist, has expired, or has been cancelled
Feb 21 15:13:19 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, hmm, i'll help you fix after the meeting
Feb 21 15:13:41 <quantumsummers|a>	teh request looks good & I think its now approved by majority
Feb 21 15:13:49 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, thanks robbat2 
Feb 21 15:13:56 <quantumsummers|a>	I shall update the bug. 
Feb 21 15:14:06 <quantumsummers|a>	tsunam: how soon can we place the orders?
Feb 21 15:14:36 <NeddySeagoon>	Is this for the Atoms or everything ?
Feb 21 15:14:40 <tsunam>	hopefully next week
Feb 21 15:14:40 <robbat2>	atoms
Feb 21 15:14:58 <tsunam>	need to see how I'll need to order though
Feb 21 15:14:59 <quantumsummers|a>	tsunam: do we have a card yet?
Feb 21 15:15:02 <tsunam>	quantumsummers|a: nope
Feb 21 15:15:14 <robbat2>	expecting the card in the next week?
Feb 21 15:15:26 <tsunam>	expecting to hear back if we get approved or not yes
Feb 21 15:15:29 <dabbott>	for the record Motion: Vote to approve proposed infra aquisitionsphase 1 passed.
Feb 21 15:15:38 <quantumsummers|a>	dabbott: thanks
Feb 21 15:15:51 <quantumsummers|a>	tsunam: I can expedite things I bet
Feb 21 15:16:06 <tsunam>	quantumsummers|a: hmm?
Feb 21 15:16:25 <quantumsummers|a>	as long as you reimburse me in short order. I can order the items myself
Feb 21 15:16:43 <tsunam>	quantumsummers|a: I could do the same as well
Feb 21 15:16:52 <tsunam>	which is how I've managed things so far
Feb 21 15:17:04 <quantumsummers|a>	I see, its up to you.
Feb 21 15:17:10 <tsunam>	thank you though
Feb 21 15:17:17 <quantumsummers|a>	my pleasure
Feb 21 15:17:24 <robbat2>	ok, I think that's all the bugs. that leaves New Business / {dabbott, Trustees} and items 6-10
Feb 21 15:17:38 <NeddySeagoon>	I guess its easier for tsunam, as hes treasuerer
Feb 21 15:18:21 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda Item 6 New Business
Feb 21 15:18:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda Item 5 New Business
Feb 21 15:18:48 <NeddySeagoon>	GSoC Back Pay Update tsunam 
Feb 21 15:19:15 <tsunam>	first check for 2009 received, second for previous years still pending
Feb 21 15:19:37 <tsunam>	from donnie the second check was not net+30 but net+60 days
Feb 21 15:19:45 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Foundation motions page
Feb 21 15:20:11 <NeddySeagoon>	looks good to me
Feb 21 15:20:25 <dabbott>	page suggested by robbat2 to keep motions organized 
Feb 21 15:20:26 <robbat2>	I verified all of 2009 (and added some missing items)
Feb 21 15:20:34 <robbat2>	that leaves just 2008 and 2010 to finish
Feb 21 15:21:00 <dabbott>	I will add to 2010 as we go on
Feb 21 15:21:08 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll have a look at 2008
Feb 21 15:21:20 <dabbott>	1 motion to add from todays meeting
Feb 21 15:21:25 <quantumsummers|a>	2
Feb 21 15:21:37 <dabbott>	ahh 2
Feb 21 15:21:47 <quantumsummers|a>	letters & funding
Feb 21 15:21:58 <dabbott>	ok thanks
Feb 21 15:22:08 <quantumsummers|a>	well three, donation policy, but that was denied
Feb 21 15:22:30 <NeddySeagoon>	May as well record that
Feb 21 15:23:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Trustees stuff.  Nothing to discuss until we get to the last bullet   Trademark Violation ? Tardix
Feb 21 15:23:33 <quantumsummers|a>	my proposal was in the email response
Feb 21 15:24:06 <dabbott>	How is the store doing?
Feb 21 15:24:48 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, In addition to your proposal, I think we write to the owner and the hosting company and ask for a takedown.  We should also write to sponsors as they may want to take their own action
Feb 21 15:26:03 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, your email was not public - you may want to reproduce the core of it here for the log
Feb 21 15:26:11 <quantumsummers|a>	In that case, I say we give them 5 days to comply before we file charges.
Feb 21 15:26:26 <quantumsummers|a>	NeddySeagoon: it is not public. Though all the board members can read it
Feb 21 15:26:43 <quantumsummers|a>	unless you want me to make it public
Feb 21 15:26:50 <quantumsummers|a>	which I am fine with 
Feb 21 15:27:16 <robbat2>	be sure to trim the text that you quoted if you do
Feb 21 15:27:16 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, well, I think we will have a motion here - that needs to be copen
Feb 21 15:27:19 <NeddySeagoon>	open*
Feb 21 15:27:28 <quantumsummers|a>	ok.
Feb 21 15:27:45 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats why I suggested you put the gist of it here
Feb 21 15:27:46 <robbat2>	(or get the author's permission to reproduce that text as well)
Feb 21 15:29:00 <quantumsummers|a>	Based on observation of www.tardix.org it infringes Gentoo trademark and copyright. It violates our CC license. It is criminal defamation (malicious slander and/or libel).
Feb 21 15:29:40 <quantumsummers|a>	I propose to the board of trustees in today's meeting that we immediately contact our legal representative and initiate proceedings against the apparent owner(s) of this site.
Feb 21 15:29:47 <robbat2>	defamation due to their use of text replacements: s/gentoo/Tardix/gi, s/developer/Whore/gi, s/performance/stickers/ etc.
Feb 21 15:29:49 <NeddySeagoon>	I would like to go with a takedown notice while we take legal advice
Feb 21 15:29:56 <quantumsummers|a>	My reasons for such action coalesce around the idea that if some entity were to do such a thing to my business I would file charges in a court of law immediately due to the obvious malicious intent.
Feb 21 15:30:27 <quantumsummers|a>	NeddySeagoon: I agree with you. lets send a letter to the operator & rackspace
Feb 21 15:30:52 <quantumsummers|a>	while on Monday I will contact our legal rep regarding next steps
Feb 21 15:30:55 <robbat2>	a well-written DMCA request, or a C&D letter?
Feb 21 15:31:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion ... Send takedown notic and seek legal advice over Tardix.org
Feb 21 15:31:21 *	tsunam mentions that robbat2 is no doubt very familar with both
Feb 21 15:31:34 <quantumsummers|a>	Well, that's the thing, I want to talk to our lawyers before we do anything
Feb 21 15:31:45 <robbat2>	can we please clarify by takedown request do we mean a DMCA request or a C&D?
Feb 21 15:31:49 <robbat2>	or a friendly letter first
Feb 21 15:31:53 <quantumsummers|a>	we should wait until we are advised
Feb 21 15:32:22 <NeddySeagoon>	I mean C&D ...  the DMCA does not apply to me so I am not familiar with it
Feb 21 15:32:30 <robbat2>	ok, so ask counsel tommorow, and then we send one of those
Feb 21 15:32:42 <quantumsummers|a>	ok, sounds good
Feb 21 15:32:50 <quantumsummers|a>	I will report back immediately
Feb 21 15:32:56 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|a, thanks
Feb 21 15:33:02 <dabbott>	ty quantumsummers|a 
Feb 21 15:33:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need a vote ?
Feb 21 15:33:04 <quantumsummers|a>	my pleasure
Feb 21 15:33:11 <quantumsummers|a>	lets do it via email
Feb 21 15:33:15 <quantumsummers|a>	vote that is
Feb 21 15:33:18 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Feb 21 15:33:20 <quantumsummers|a>	sound ok?
Feb 21 15:33:22 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, DMCA requests are considerably easier to produce, and have less legal backlash in MOST cases
Feb 21 15:33:44 <robbat2>	provided you follow their terms correctly. if you screw up a DMCA, the backlash is worse
Feb 21 15:33:45 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, thanks for the clarifiaction
Feb 21 15:34:14 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda item 6 Membership Applications - none to vote on 
Feb 21 15:34:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Agenda Item 7  Date of Next Meeting - 21th Mar 2010 19:00 UTC
Feb 21 15:34:49 <NeddySeagoon>	That works for me
Feb 21 15:34:55 <dabbott>	OK here
Feb 21 15:34:56 *	quantumsummers|a appologizes, but has to go. In brief, the date for the next meeting is fine by me. Mr. Chandras has been added to the rolls, as you can see here: http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/20100213_members_list.xml
Feb 21 15:35:09 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Feb 21 15:35:17 <tsunam>	works for me as well
Feb 21 15:35:25 <tsunam>	I'll make sure to add a reminder this time
Feb 21 15:35:27 <quantumsummers|a>	I will be available in about 3.5 hours if someone needs me
Feb 21 15:35:32 <robbat2>	i think that covers everything
Feb 21 15:35:35 <robbat2>	for today
Feb 21 15:35:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ...
Feb 21 15:35:54 <NeddySeagoon>	None from me
Feb 21 15:36:01 <robbat2>	none here
Feb 21 15:36:03 <dabbott>	nope
Feb 21 15:36:09 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, 
Feb 21 15:36:12 <NeddySeagoon>	^^
Feb 21 15:36:30 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 10 Open Floor
Feb 21 15:37:38 *	robbat2 listens to the crickets chirp
Feb 21 15:37:53 *	NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
