19:00  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel and calls the meeting to order ... roll call
19:00 < tsunam> here
19:00 <@dabbott> here
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, robbat2|na ?
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum  anyway - they can catch up
19:01 < shanecoughlan> Shane Coughlan from OIN, here as a visitor
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 2 Who is logging the meeting ?
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> shanecoughlan, welcome
19:01 <@robbat2|na> hi
19:01 < tsunam> welcome shanecoughlan 
19:01 -!- robbat2|na is now known as robbat2
19:02 < tsunam> I'm logging if needed
19:02 <@dabbott> hi shanecoughlan 
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> I think I am too
19:02 <@dabbott> me also
19:02  * quantumsummers is here
19:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-trustees [+o tsunam] by robbat2
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 3 Old Business.
19:03  * dabbott reminds everyone to refresh the agenda page
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Election Results - For the record, there was three candidates for 3 vacancies ... they were elected unopposed
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> As there was no vote, the cull of inactive members needs to be deferred until 2011.  Is everyone OK with that ?
19:04 <@dabbott> yes
19:05 <@robbat2> no objections from me
19:05 <@NeddySeagoon> or are there other ideas
19:05 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: in general, I think that is fine, although there are quite a few "members" that we can call MIA
19:05 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: might want to mention the 3 elected for the record 
19:05 <@tsunam> I'm fine with deferring it until 2011
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> The three trustees elected for 2010 to 2012 are NeddySeagoon, tsunam and dabbott - all the trustees that retired by rotation
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Updating Registration in NM (postponed until trustee results) ... any progress.
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> afk for 5 min
19:07 <@tsunam> I will work on this now that the election results are official
19:07 <@quantumsummers> sounds great
19:07 <@tsunam> I will contact each trustee to confirm address and contact information in case it has changed since the last update
19:07 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: how soon can you get that in place?
19:07 <@tsunam> I'll send out emails next week to the trustee's and hopefully fill out the paperwork in the same week
19:08  * quantumsummers thinks we'll need that before filing for np status
19:08 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: that is solid, thanks
19:08 <@quantumsummers> Guess we can move to GSoC Back Pay Update
19:08 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: ?
19:09 <@tsunam> Google has given us the money for all the previous years as requested
19:09 <@tsunam> there is no outstanding balances with google at this time
19:09 <@quantumsummers> fantastic. that is a substantial amount of money. thanks tsunam
19:09 <@robbat2> what was the amount we gained from that, if you're comfortable mentioning the amount here?
19:10 <@tsunam> I'd have to review the total amount to give an exact figure, but it was about 15k
19:10 <@robbat2> nice
19:10 <@dabbott> great, I will remove it from the agenda
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, well done
19:11  * quantumsummers will continues to SFLC Update, if everyone is ready
19:11 <@tsunam> thanks goes to donnie for working with google to get it arranged
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers 
19:11 <@robbat2> yup
19:11 <@quantumsummers> three cheers for Donnie
19:11 <@dabbott> hip hip
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> horay ... I'll drop him a thank you email
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  SFLC Update please
19:12 <@quantumsummers> re: sflc; starting with the 1023 app; I anticipate the last pieces of my part going out this week
19:12 <@quantumsummers> sflc will complete 2 sections dealing with the late application which include some narrative, etc by the middle of April
19:13 <@quantumsummers> we should have everything in order to submit following a final draft approval
19:13 <@quantumsummers> shooting for mid april
19:13 <@quantumsummers> we have all necessary pieces like the bylaws, etc
19:13 <@quantumsummers> I need to play a bit more with the budget in comparison to some examples I have
19:13 <@quantumsummers> I will need feedback on the budget, of course
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, can it be an AGM item, or should we wait until May ?   AGM would be good
19:14 <@quantumsummers> although its not a set-in-stone sort of thing
19:14 <@quantumsummers> AGM
19:14 <@quantumsummers> I would really like to get this out asap
19:14 <@quantumsummers> AGM is good with me, I think sflc will be fine with that too
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> ok - will you circulate the 1023 for us all to read and understand please ?
19:15 <@quantumsummers> I am also working with sflc to put me in contact with several major users of gentoo.
19:15 <@tsunam> sure
19:15 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: sure will
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, it will be novel to me :)
19:15 <@quantumsummers> I am still collecting letters of support
19:15 <@robbat2> re letters of support, last month we suggested a formal request for said letters, did that get written and put up?
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> how many letters of support do we need, or is the the more the better ?
19:16 <@quantumsummers> hmm, I wrote that up, but only circulated privately
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't recall seeing it
19:16 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: more the better, then we can cherry pick the best ones for inclusion in the app
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok
19:17 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: circulated amongst people I knew that would be interested in writing one for uis
19:17 <@quantumsummers> I need to post that an a couple other things to the /news
19:17  * quantumsummers been busy a bit ;)
19:17 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, can you please send that letter on to the rest of us, as I was waiting for it to send to some major gentoo users I know
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Ah ok ... that works for me.  Where is the record and the responses ?  Think audit trail
19:17 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: yes sir.
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers,  Certified Public Accountant (Quotes) 
19:19 <@quantumsummers> CPA: ok so I have one from the local firm; $500 to $700 per month for full bookkeeping, taxes, etc. Still haven't heard from the NY group
19:19 <@quantumsummers> I'll poke them on Monday
19:20 <@quantumsummers> if we want just tax service, its about $1100
19:20 <@quantumsummers> I found that monthly figure outrageous
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> me too
19:20 <@tsunam> for the size of our organization, and the income its quite outrageous
19:20 <@quantumsummers> taxes is a one time  fee
19:20 <@quantumsummers> yeah, crazy
19:20 <@robbat2> it does seem high, but perhaps their definition of full bookkeeping is somewhat larger than we actually need
19:21 <@robbat2> we don't have any payroll for example
19:21 <@tsunam> true
19:21 <@quantumsummers> so, I think I will chat with them again. Yes, I gave them all the info, but it appears they have a different view of things than reality bears
19:21 <@quantumsummers> that is far too expensive, far and away
19:22 <@quantumsummers> Perhaps I will take the search to a broader group
19:22 <@quantumsummers> can't hurt to have more quotes
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yeah, it won't do any harm.  I was expecting them to quote a fixed priced based on our workload ... not a $200 range
19:22 <@quantumsummers> I am really disappointed in the local firm, I must say
19:23 <@quantumsummers> so, the search continues
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> moving on ..
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Trademark Violation ? Tardix
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> I think this issue is closed ... unless it recurrs
19:23 <@quantumsummers> re: TM violation; sflc was quite happy with our response. if we see further nonsense, sflc is happy to take action on our behalf
19:24 <@dabbott> robbat2, ++
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> lets leave it at that
19:24 <@quantumsummers> thanks to Diego for noting the violation and to robbat2 for squashing it
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, rotating side bar ?
19:24 <@robbat2> no change on my part, just haven't had time to sit down and deploy w/ integration to our existing stuff
19:25 <@robbat2> we do have the web nodes moved now
19:25 <@robbat2> to boxes with enough power for it
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, any ETA for deployment ?
19:25 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: have you deployed locally & tested/benchmarked the thing?
19:25 <@robbat2> deployed locally and tested briefly, but no benches
19:25 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, none unfortuntely. just short of time a lot lately
19:26 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: I see about 300 req/s on a crap old p4
19:26  * NeddySeagoon  Cash Sponsors Policy
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> No change.  Last months meeting wanted to take legal advice on the policy.   Its still in my devspace
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott Larry The Cow Graphics Contest.
19:28 <@dabbott> On hold I contacted musikc by email and irc. I have not heard back.
19:28 <@dabbott> I do not want to start a Larry contest without the Gentoo Store being involved. If I ran the contest and the winning graphics was not offered on a t-shirt on the Gentoo Store as described in the contest announcement I would not have an answer when questioned as to why.
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, sounds like a plan
19:29 <@dabbott> I will poke here again
19:29 <@dabbott> s/here/her
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Open Bugs
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 285520
19:30 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285520 "Copyright year in file headers should be updated when file is edited."; Portage Development, Repoman; NEW; neddyseagoon@g.o:dev-portage@g.o
19:31 <@robbat2> echangelog already updates copyright dates in ebuilds and the changelog
19:31 <@robbat2> should we get it to automatically update stuff in files/?
19:31 <@robbat2> it cannot by definition update stuff in custom tarballs however
19:31 <@robbat2> so developer education may be needed there
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, I raised the bug after spotting a few old dates in new ebuilds
19:31 <@robbat2> in the ebuilds themselves, or in files/ ?
19:32 <@NeddySeagoon> ebuilds
19:33 <@dabbott> then they did not use repoman
19:33 <@robbat2> odd, echangelog does edit them when there was a change
19:33 <@NeddySeagoon> err ...  config files when I was doing etc-update
19:33 <@robbat2> ok, config files come from files/, and echangelog doesn't touch those
19:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Ah ok. maybe we want to update files/ too then
19:35 <@robbat2> ok, lets ask the gentoolkit-dev folk to update echangelog for that
19:35 <@NeddySeagoon> at least, config files
19:35  * quantumsummers is unsure about wanting to &copy; config files. I guess if they are gentoo-specific
19:35 <@robbat2> conf.d files certainly are gentoo-specific
19:35 <@robbat2> ditto init.d
19:35 <@quantumsummers> sure, that makes sense
19:36 <@robbat2> we would have to be very careful that we don't edit patches however
19:36 <@robbat2> because they would get broken
19:36 <@quantumsummers> perhaps I prod to take a look at what we should not mess with
19:36 <@robbat2> but this is getting outside the realm of trustee stuff I think
19:36 <@quantumsummers> indeed
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 285549
19:37 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549 "Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; belendax@gmail.com:infra-bugs@g.o
19:38 <@quantumsummers> I have a question about this. We do country or language specific channels?
19:38 <@quantumsummers> I somehow thought it was language specific
19:38 <@quantumsummers> in which case we should do a farsi (!sp) and/or arabic channel
19:39 <@dabbott> I can understand language specific, but country 
19:39 <@NeddySeagoon> well, there is -pt and -br which are both variarions on Porugese
19:39 <@robbat2> they are regional channels
19:39 <@robbat2> http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/irc.xml
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> and #gentoo and #gentoo-uk which are different dialects of English :)
19:40 <@quantumsummers> a language-specific policy likely would render any argument regarding the concerns brought up on the bug obsolete
19:40 <@dabbott> well in that case no reason not to, the ban has been lifted
19:40 <@quantumsummers> hmm, this is tricky business.
19:40 <@tsunam> (got about 5 more minutes)
19:40 <@quantumsummers> kk
19:41 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll go with what the American trustees decide
19:41 <@robbat2> as I noted in the bug, there is no restrictions against talking to people in Iran, you could pick up the phone now and dial somebody there
19:42 <@quantumsummers> personally, I think we should focus on language support, as opposed to a specific country in this case
19:42 <@NeddySeagoon> its the export of software from the USA.  It would be up to persons located in the USA not to post things on pastebins
19:43 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, that clarification would certianly fix it ... but is Iranian a language, or is it Arabic ?
19:43 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, i'm pretty sure that pastebins would fall under the TSU exemption (if anybody followed up the kernel.org stuff I mentioned)
19:44 <@robbat2> Farsi is the language
19:44 <@robbat2> but i'd expect an Iranian channel to contain both Farsi and Arabic
19:45 <@robbat2> possibly also large amounts of Turkish
19:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Farsi is used outside of Iran.  Would this be a change of policy ?
19:45 <@dabbott> we have existing country channels so my opinion is add it, it is no different than the other ones
19:46 <@tsunam> k I'm out. bugs I'm involved in should be fairly up to date
19:46 <@tsunam> good luck with the rest of the meeting
19:46 <@NeddySeagoon> there is #gentoo-tr thats very quiet
19:46 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, bye for now
19:46 <@robbat2> the channels have always been regional, to encourage the users in that regional to help each other, and have a larger common cultural base
19:46 <@robbat2> cya tsunam
19:46  * tsunam thinks language based would be a better policy then country
19:46 <@dabbott> later tsunam 
19:48 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, lets fix the IRC page to show channels are language based and add gentoo-  whatever the abbrevation is
19:48 <@robbat2> what do we do about pt-br then?
19:48 <@NeddySeagoon> Free SW transends policatical boundaries anyway
19:49 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: they are 2 dialects of portugese
19:49 <@robbat2> iirc the Quebecios had their own channel too at one point
19:49 <@NeddySeagoon> We would need to merge -pt and -br  ... if the languages are close enough
19:49 <@quantumsummers> good point, robbat2
19:50 <@robbat2> in both of those cases, the language is nearly identical, the culture isn't
19:50 <@NeddySeagoon> thats a problem
19:51 <@quantumsummers> perhaps we should request comment from legal before we proceed
19:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Culture plays a big part in setting expectations and assumptions on IRC
19:51 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok
19:51 <@robbat2> Given that Facebook (as a large US company) has iranian+Farsi support (seperate, but related), why should Gentoo have any problems adding similar support?
19:51 <@quantumsummers> I would think that doing something in the entire region should be just fine
19:52 <@quantumsummers> however, I believe its the language that is important, and not the geo-location
19:52 <@robbat2> region/culture, of which language is a major contributing factor
19:52 <@NeddySeagoon> We are taking too long on this one.
19:52 <@robbat2> yeah
19:52 <@quantumsummers> so, we can do an arabic channel, and also a farsi channel?
19:53 <@robbat2> ask legal if we can add it, in light of the TSU exemption AND facebook support
19:53 <@robbat2> if we can't add .ir directly
19:53 <@robbat2> then fallback to arabic and farsi
19:53 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ++
19:53 <@quantumsummers> seems fine
19:53 <@dabbott> ok
19:53 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 252140
19:53 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/252140 "media-libs/amr[nw]b update LICENSE"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; luke-jr+gentoobugs@utopios.org:sound@g.o
19:54  * quantumsummers apologizes, but must attend to the dinner guest. I will check in here after (about 2 hours I imagine)
19:54 <@robbat2> ssuominen asked for a link to the actual license, and never got it
19:55 <@robbat2> RESO NEEDINFO
19:55 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ok
19:56 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 293657
19:56 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/293657 "domains gentoo.at and gentoo.cc"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; jodok@batlogg.com:trustees@g.o
19:56 <@dabbott> we don't need more domains
19:58 <@robbat2> .cc has additional value in representing creative commons
19:58 <@robbat2> so if we wanted to pursue anything with that, that'd be the only reason I could find to keep it
19:59 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, whats the infa work involved ?  Are more domains value for money or should we be using sub domains ?
19:59 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, on the technical side, less than 5 mins in the ultradns admin UI
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, what about maintainance ?
20:00 <@robbat2> slightly longer to navigate around various DNS registrars for initial setup and paying annually
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> If the site won't be maintained - we don't want it
20:00 <@robbat2> (unless multi-year is possible, which is preferrable for discounts)
20:00 <@robbat2> there was no proposal to take their site
20:00 <@robbat2> only the domain
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, Gandi do multi-year
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, So we fund the registration is all ?
20:01 <@robbat2> yup
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> I have no problem with that
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> ... provided the site is maintatned
20:02 <@robbat2> what do you mean by site in this case?
20:03 <@robbat2> the other domains we've picked up have directed to some sub part of the www.gentoo.org site
20:03 <@robbat2> or made a language selection easier
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, the content
20:04 <@robbat2> err, I keep interpreting you as if there is some site content other than that of www.g.o
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets just do it - its $20 a year .... we need to review the use that all these domains we pick up are put to and drop ones that are not used
20:05 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, I think .cc could go to http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/contract.xml
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, that is what I was understanding
20:05 -!- Arfrever [~Arfrever@gentoo/developer/Arfrever] has quit [Ping timeout: 252 seconds]
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, Ah, I see.
20:06 <@robbat2> do we need a vote?
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, and if nobody uses gentoo.cc  we drop it
20:06 <@robbat2> or just marked as accepted and i'll take care of it as the infra side
20:07 <@dabbott> fine here
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, fine by me - longer term we need a way to cull unused domains
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ?
20:08 <@robbat2> he's gone already
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> carried anyway - 3 votes for
20:08 <@robbat2> i'm updating the bug
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 296766
20:09 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, is onto that
20:10 <@robbat2> that was dealt with earlier, just leave a comment in it I think
20:10 <@dabbott> yep
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 302542
20:10 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/302542 "domain gentoo.org.il"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; NEW; spatz@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:11 <@robbat2> do we even have a hebrew translation?
20:11 <@dabbott> .cc I can understand this one ?
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> What would we do with gentoo.il
20:12 <@robbat2> gentoo.org.ul
20:12 <@robbat2> *il
20:12 <@robbat2> not gentoo.il
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, thanks.  I still don't see it being used
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, what would you do with it if we kept it for a year so we can make up our mind ?
20:13 <@robbat2> that transfer cost seems rather high
20:13 <@robbat2> let's ask now
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm against collecting random domains because that have gentoo in their names
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> they*
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> It expires next Saturday
20:15 <@robbat2> validity:     27-03-2011
20:15 <@robbat2> no it doesn't
20:15 <@robbat2> they renewed it in the meanwhile
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, OK, we have a year to make up our minds
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug  304853
20:16 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; NEW; mihel@hotbox.ru:trustees@g.o
20:17 <@dabbott> working on it
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> the competition
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 305341
20:18 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: No permissions to access Bug #305341 in gentoo
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Does this bug need to be restricted?
20:19 <@dabbott> thats the provantage equipment
20:19 <@robbat2> we already said it can be unrestricted
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, I can read it, the bot can't
20:19 <@robbat2> nothing in it says why it was
20:20 <@robbat2> however if we get questions about it in the first place, some of the trustees emails are private due to the sponsor's internal business details
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, correct.  The expenditure will show in our accounts - we need to check the wording on the bug and open it if possible
20:21 <@robbat2> solar and kingtaco already did so
20:22 <@robbat2> the sole concern was the chain of questions as I noted
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, that may come anyway, when the accounts are published
20:22 <@robbat2> yup
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets open the bug now than
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> then
20:23 <@robbat2> +1
20:23 <@robbat2> you want to do it, or I can?
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll just do it
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 305341
20:24 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/305341 "Funding Request: Phase 1 of OSL refresh & migration"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; kingtaco@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> that worked
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 305639
20:25 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/305639 "Reimbursement from infra budget: halcy0n for bender PSUs"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> We need tsunam to tell us that its been paid
20:25 <@robbat2> i think the PSUs arrived at OSU already, i'll confirm and tsunam can pay halcy0n
20:25 <@robbat2> armin76, ^^^ did they turn up yet?
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 291404
20:26 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: No permissions to access Bug #291404 in gentoo
20:26 <+armin76> robbat2: yes, ramereth said so
20:26 <@robbat2> ok, thanks
20:28 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, the last bug He/She has been quiet lately
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> I think we are on this userrel bug for info only.   
20:28 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, you already commented on bug 291404 months ago, i don't see anything further for trustees
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, I got two invites to join his facebook
20:29 <@dabbott> fun fun
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> !bug 296492
20:29 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296492 ""Agenda" links are wrong"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; ASSI; tove@g.o:trustees@g.o
20:30 <@robbat2> WIP for me
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 5. New Business
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Invention Network
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Security and confidence regarding software patents.
20:31 <@dabbott> shanecoughlan, ^^^
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> I think its a good thing ... but I would like to see our legal run an eye of the licence before we sign up
20:32 < shanecoughlan> Hi guys. While OIN cannot guarantee patent problems will not occur, we believe our deterrent is significant. 
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> of -> over
20:33 <@NeddySeagoon> shanecoughlan, thats only in the USA I presume ?
20:33 < shanecoughlan> The OIN licensee agreement basically says:
20:33 < shanecoughlan> (1) OIN gives you a royalty-free license for all OIN patents and patent applications.  
20:33 < shanecoughlan> (2) In return you give a royalty-free license for any Linux System patents or patent applications you have to OIN and other licensees.
20:33 <@robbat2> we don't have any patents
20:33 < shanecoughlan> no, OIN has international patents, and operates globally.  I am in Japan.  It's 5.33am here.
20:34 < shanecoughlan> You don't need any :)  It's only if you have Linux System patents that you need to grant patent licenses.  If you don't have any, then there is no cost to obtaining the deterrent.
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> shanecoughlan, Its not just software patents then ?
20:34 < shanecoughlan> NeddySeagoon: only software patents.
20:34 <@robbat2> by linux system, do you cover only the kernel or the entire ecosystem?
20:35 < shanecoughlan> The OIN licensee program is about creating a software patent aggression "no fly zone" over the Linux System.
20:35 < shanecoughlan> robbat2: It is more than the kernel, but not all of FOSS.  The formal definitions of Linux System and everything else OIN uses are here:
20:35 < shanecoughlan> http://www.openinventionnetwork.com/pat_linuxdef.php
20:36 < shanecoughlan> robbat2: What OIN counts as Linux Environment Components (the stuff explicitly protected) are listed here:
20:36 < shanecoughlan> http://www.openinventionnetwork.com/pat_linuxdefpop.html
20:37 <@robbat2> so anything that gentoo holds the base copyright on perhaps?
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm in favour of a considered approach ... I do not intend to make up my mind today
20:39 <@robbat2> shanecoughlan, your table in that last link is also somewhat broken, do you have the raw data somewhere accessible too?
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, lets come back to this
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> April Mandatory Gentoo Foundation Inc Annual General Meeting ...
20:41 < shanecoughlan> robbat2: Sorry, I just have these links.  Basically, anything under the definition and links above falls under "Linux System" and requires a patent license grant from licensees (if they have any patent covering that stuff).  In return they get the same from other licensees plus a grant to whatever OIN holds.  Just as importantly, the licensee program also creates a link between OIN and xProject or yCompany to help deter 
20:41 < shanecoughlan> aggression from any third parties.  OIN has significant resources and experience in the field, and a mission to protect the growth of Linux-related innovation.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ?
20:42 <@robbat2> your Linux system definition seems to be really broad however, Gentoo distributes source tarballs for a LOT of stuff, so i'm trying to see what would actually be covered of them
20:43 <@robbat2> for those that aren't already covered
20:43 <@robbat2> the linuxdefpop contains duplicated date, but the majority of those packages are already in Gentoo
20:44 <@robbat2> the DVR/DVD exemptions also seem weird
20:44 < shanecoughlan> robbat2: that means you are distributing code OIN is actively working to protect, which is one reason OIN wants to talk with you about working together.  OIN wants to cover distros in the licensee program as part of its outreach to support the community.
20:44 <@robbat2> MythTV is entirely linux based, why isn't it protected as a linux system component?
20:46 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, yup, return to it on the AGM, but perhaps also schedule an additional meeting for discussing it?
20:46 <@robbat2> that list and definition raise far more questions
20:47 <@robbat2> i don't have a problem with the concept itself, I've seen Keiths presentations several times now and chatted with him
20:47 <@robbat2> but some of the details bug me now
20:47 < shanecoughlan> robbat2: OIN is happy to engage with you guys to clarify items.
20:47 <@robbat2> we're running way late on the meeting already, so pushed to another meeting / email
20:47 <@robbat2> thanks shane
20:47 <@robbat2> do we have your email address directly?
20:47 < shanecoughlan> robbat2: you are welcome.
20:48 < shanecoughlan> scoughlan@openinventionnetwork.com
20:48 <@robbat2> thanks
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ok, lets take it to the list and collect all the questions together - we can then forward them to OIN.  When we have some answers, we can have a discussion with OIN to tidy up loose ends
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks shanecoughlan 
20:48 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, open list please, not the private alias
20:48 <@dabbott> thanks for your time shanecoughlan 
20:48 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, sure -nfp
20:49 <@robbat2> next agenda item
20:49 <@NeddySeagoon> April will be our AGM - normal monthly business is mostly suspended.
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> We will need reports from officers. Look at last years reports.
20:50 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, can you help me with the agenda
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> The treasurers report should include a Gentoo Store Financial Report
20:50 <@robbat2> reports from president, secretary, treasurer
20:51 <@robbat2> i'll try to help tsunam with the treasurer side to review numbers before it goes final
20:51 <@dabbott> and that is all
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, yep.  The most important point is that we double all the trustees salaries :)
20:51 <@robbat2> $0.00 to $00.00 :-)
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, exactly
20:51 <@dabbott> no layoffs this year I can promise 
20:52 -!- shanecoughlan [~shanecoug@TMNfi-01p2-10.ppp11.odn.ad.jp] has left #gentoo-trustees []
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda item 6 Membership Applications 
20:52 <@robbat2> none at this time :-)
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> There were none
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 7 Date of Next Meeting - 18th Apr 2010 19:00 UTC
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> The UK will be on daylight saving time but I expect to be there
20:53 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, is 18:00 better ?
20:53 <@robbat2> i'm supposed to be back from silicon valley the day before that, so I should be there
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, just different
20:53 <@robbat2> i have to leave in about 5 mins now tho
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 8 Any other business ...
20:54 <@robbat2> none from me
20:54 <@dabbott> none here
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> I have one ... the Gentoo-wiki needs to update its about page
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Its missing the acknowledgement about our logo
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> Oh ... I will produce a meetings calander for the next 12 Months too
20:55 <@robbat2> open a bug for it and contact them? mikevalstar@gmail.com is the email to contact them
20:55 <@robbat2> or was in 2008 at least
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ok, I'll do that
20:55 <@robbat2> but it's a wiki, we might be able to just edit in ourselves :-)
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Responsibilities ...
20:56 <@robbat2> yup, we can
20:56 <@robbat2> what do you want it to say?
20:56 <@robbat2> i'll put it right now
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post logs and update motions - If I can remember how to use CVS
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, copy it from our non-commercial use page
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> I still have motions from 2008 to add
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> emails are down to quantumsummers but I don't think there were any new ones
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> Which brings us to Item 10 Open Floor
21:00  * NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
