<?xml version='1.0' encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!-- $Header: /var/cvsroot/gentoo/xml/htdocs/proj/en/releng/installer/meetings/Attic/20040205.xml,v 1.1 2004/02/09 01:27:03 tseng Exp $ -->
<?xml-stylesheet href="/xsl/guide.xsl" type="text/xsl"?>
<!DOCTYPE guide SYSTEM "/dtd/guide.dtd">

<guide link="/proj/en/releng/installer/meetings/2004/20040205.xml">
<title>Gentoo Linux Installer Meeting Summary</title>
<subtitle>05 Feb 2004</subtitle>

<author title="Author">
  <mail link="wolfwood@users.sourceforge.net">Nicholas D. Wolfwood</mail>
</author>

<license/>

<abstract>
The meeting began at 1900 UTC, and the meeting chair was tseng (Brandon Hale).
The primary speaker was esammer (Eric Sammer).
(<uri link="/proj/en/releng/installer/meetings/2004/20040205_log.txt">raw
log</uri>)
</abstract>

<version/>
<date>05 Feb 2004</date>

<chapter>
<title>General Summary</title>
<section>
<title>Project Organization</title>
<body>

<p>
esammer explained the overall design structure for the project, then covered the
reasons for an initial lack of publicity.  He then set a loose goal of 2-4 weeks
for a prototype.  Tasks were then tentatively assigned to various individuals.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Releng Coordination</title>
<body>

<p>
tigger^ brought up a question of resources available on the release LiveCDs,
iggy noted that python-2.2 is available on the release LiveCDs, and npmccallum
noted that additional python modules will likely be needed.  esammer points out
that coordination with the releng team will be needed to facilitate additions to
the release LiveCDs.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Assignments</title>
<body>

<p>
It was decided that for the protoyping phase karltk, npmccallum, and esammer
will be responsible for code, tseng and spyderous will be responsible for the
project pages, blackace will be responsible for documentation, all individuals
present will act as advisors, and the entire community will be involved in
design with karltk and esammer coordinating.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Releases</title>
<body>

<p>
It was generally agreed to follow an XP style release system in which cycles
consist of coding, testing, then releasing.  Cycles occur every X period of
time, depending on how quickly code develops, and unstable snapshots are
released at the end of each cycle in addition to semi-stable milestone
snapshots.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Project Resources</title>
<body>

<p>
esammer asked if any resources would be required in addition to the already
available resources (CVS, project page, mailing list, IRC channel).  karltk
pointed out the need for a bug repository, klieber arranged for a bugzilla
module named "GLI" and a "gli-bugs" mail alias.  pauldv pointed out the need for
a subproject link from the releng project page.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Meetings/Status Reports</title>
<body>

<p>
It was decided to call meetings as needed, with coders regularly calling
impromptu meetings during the prototype phase.  It was tentatively decided that
status reports should be made weekly via the mailing list.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Getting Involved</title>
<body>

<p>
esammer notes that those wanting to get involved in the project should subscribe
to the mailing list (gentoo-installer@lists.gentoo.org) and idle in
#gentoo-installer on FreeNode.  pauldv pointed out that recruiting too many
people could slow down development during the prototype phase, esammer agreed
and invited everyone to read the design documents and provide constructive
comments rather than add coders at this time.
</p>

</body>
</section>
<section>
<title>Snapshot Distribution</title>
<body>

<p>
klieber brought up the topic of how snapshot tarballs should be distributed, it
was then decided to place snapshot tarballs in <path>/experimental</path>.
</p>

</body>
</section>
</chapter>

<chapter>
<title>Open Floor</title>
<section>
<body>

<p>
The floor was opened to general question and answer at 2010 UTC.  There was
discussion of the role of XML in the design, localization in the frontends,
the nature of the project's relationship with GLIS and other installer projects,
the possible extension of the installer into a post-install reconfiguration
engine, and many helpful pointers to the design documents found under "Further
reading" on the <uri link="/proj/en/releng/installer/index.xml">project
page</uri>.
</p>

<p>
The meeting was adjourned at 2051 UTC
</p>

</body>
</section>
</chapter>
</guide>
