18:36  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to call the 2011 AGM to order
18:36 <@NeddySeagoon> roll call
18:37 <@dabbott> present
18:37 <@robbat2|na> present
18:37 <@quantumsummers> here
18:37 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, said he may not be able to attend, so lets start
18:37 <@quantumsummers> ok
18:38 <@NeddySeagoon> The presidents report is at http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/PresidentsReport2011_2.xml   I'll allow a minute or so for reading
18:41 <@quantumsummers> Motion: Approve NeddySeagoon's Presidents Report. Nice job Roy, well done.
18:41 <@robbat2|na> Seconded
18:41 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks quantumsummers 
18:41 <@NeddySeagoon> vote
18:41 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
18:41 <@robbat2|na> Aye
18:41 <@dabbott> Yes
18:42 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ?
18:42 <@quantumsummers> aye
18:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion carried.
18:42 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Are you ready with the Secretaries report ?
18:42 <@quantumsummers> I have emailed my Secretary's report. Have not had a chance to xml it yet.
18:43  * NeddySeagoon checks mail
18:43 <@quantumsummers> further, I am on a machine where I have no keys. So, if someone wants to place it in your webspace, it would be appreciated
18:43 <@quantumsummers> I think it may need to be text-wrapped
18:44 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, can you pastebin it please for the wider readership
18:44 <@quantumsummers> sure
18:45 <@quantumsummers> http://dpaste.com/532989/
18:46 <@quantumsummers> format is not too nice
18:46 <@quantumsummers> let me see if I can clean it up a bit
18:46 <@robbat2|na> s/None with NW/None with NM/
18:46 <@quantumsummers> yes, thanks robbat2|na
18:47 <@dabbott> http://paste.pocoo.org/show/373453/
18:47 <@quantumsummers> thanks dabbott that is much better
18:48 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, It looks pretty comprehensive.  I move to adopt the content of the Secretaries report
18:48 <@robbat2|na> "Consider filing for operations in the state of Missouri." I have a question
18:48 <@robbat2|na> what happens to any mail that would presently go to our address of record?
18:49 <@NeddySeagoon> it will be forwarded - probably to Josh whichis something we need to fix
18:49 <@robbat2|na> ok
18:49 <@quantumsummers> the goal is to get the mail, period. So, we will need to adjust the NM address.
18:49 <@robbat2|na> yes
18:49 <@robbat2|na> along with filing the update paperwork for NM
18:50 <@quantumsummers> exactly
18:50 <@NeddySeagoon> yes - we can do that now the election is over
18:50 <@robbat2|na> no other questions. i second to adopt the content.
18:50 <@quantumsummers> the MO registration is for convenience, and does not effect our NM sitation
18:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Apparenty, NM wanted routine filings first and updates separately later
18:51 <@quantumsummers> further, I volunteer my POBox for gentoo usage
18:51 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: that is correct, Josh and I talked about it (and since each one is $10 we thought we should wait until things settled)
18:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote to accept the content of the Secretaries report please
18:52 <@dabbott> yes
18:52 <@NeddySeagoon> yes
18:52 <@robbat2|na> aye
18:52 <@quantumsummers> yes
18:52 <@quantumsummers> one note
18:52 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion Carried.  It needs to be XMLified for the commit
18:53 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, swap hats ... The treasuers report please
18:53 <@quantumsummers> I have another meeting on the 18th with my CPA who has talked informally with the IRS regarding the situation (annonymously)
18:53 <@dabbott> I can do that and sent it to quantumsummers 
18:53 <@quantumsummers> thank you dabbott, if you don't mind I appreciate it
18:54 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you want to hold it over to the next meeting ?
18:54 <@quantumsummers> I note in the Sec  report that the Treasurers report is pending
18:54 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
18:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Next meeting then
18:54 <@quantumsummers> I can work on it next week, I need the latest statement
18:54 <@quantumsummers> from cap1, that is
18:54 <@quantumsummers> final note from me:
18:55 <@quantumsummers> in conversations, the CPAs that I have spoken with are fully confident that we will have no real issue obtaining proper status, and they estimate 8 months from filing date for finalization
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Thanks. We just have to find the IRS fees and CPA fees then  :)
18:56 <@quantumsummers> Once I have the meeting on the 18th, I will prepare the submission to the board. Should take a week.
18:56 <@quantumsummers> I have bids from 2 firms, still waiting on 2 more
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, sounds like things are moving at last ... well done
18:57 <@dabbott> thanks quantumsummers :)
18:57 <@quantumsummers> nice thing, once we get settled, it will take <30 days to get the app submitted
18:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 3 Trustee Election Results
18:57 <@quantumsummers> further, that will be easy to parallelize with the 990s
18:57 <@quantumsummers> please continue
18:58 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2 and quantumsummers were reelected for a further 2 year term
18:58  * quantumsummers thanks the electorate.
18:58 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0 filled the seat vacated by tsunam
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> I  would like to propose a vote of thanks to tsunam for the work he put in over the last 3 years
18:59 <@quantumsummers> seconded
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote
18:59 <@robbat2|na> aye
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
18:59 <@quantumsummers> aye
18:59 <@dabbott> yes yes
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> And welcome rich0 to te team
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> That covers item 4 too
19:00 <@quantumsummers> Welcome Mr. Freeman, glad to have you.
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 Trustee Meeting Calendar
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> The proposal is to carry on with the routine we have settled into.  I may have an issue with June 17 as my wife wants us to be away around then
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> June 19*
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need to make any changes right now ?
19:03 <@robbat2|na> my calender for the rest of 2011 fits with the proposed dates
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, thats as good as it gets
19:03 <@dabbott> dates are fine by me
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ?
19:04 <@quantumsummers> looking
19:05 <@quantumsummers> those dates look fine
19:05 <@NeddySeagoon> I propose we adopt the meetings calander then
19:05 <@dabbott> seconded
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Independence Day and Thanksgiving are avoided 
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote please
19:06 <@robbat2|na> aye
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
19:06 <@dabbott> yes
19:06 <@quantumsummers> aye
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion Carried
19:06 <@quantumsummers> One thing:
19:07 <@quantumsummers> I do think we should move the AGM to follow the end of our fiscal year next year
19:07 <@quantumsummers> I think it would simplify certain reporting requirements
19:07 <@quantumsummers> i.e. the treasurers report would be the annual tax statements + other related info
19:08 <@quantumsummers> we can discuss this at another time, its not a big deal.
19:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I was wondering about that.  The April date comes from holding the meeting in 2008 as soon as the elections were in, as several years had been missed
19:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Its been annual ever since
19:08 <@quantumsummers> it would be nice to simplify reporting to include the mandated annual reports and publish those in the AGM
19:09 <@quantumsummers> I see. Just a suggestion. :)
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Agreed. That would make either July or Aug the AGM then ?
19:09 <@dabbott> What month May ?
19:09 <@quantumsummers> Fiscal year end is June
19:09 <@dabbott> ok so July
19:09 <@quantumsummers> Our filing deadline is Nov 15th
19:10 <@quantumsummers> anytime in there should be fine
19:10 <@quantumsummers> Might be easier on the future Treasurer  to do Aug.
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> We are allowed 13 months between AGMs by law, so we can slip it a month per year
19:11 <@robbat2|na> but nothing says you can't have more than one in a calendar year
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, true
19:11 <@quantumsummers> that can easily account for time required to summarize the financials if we choose the Aug date.
19:11 <@dabbott> :)
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, We will need an interim meeting then.
19:12 <@robbat2|na> August is a little busy for me w/ 3 conferences (that don't conflict with the proposed meeting date), but no other objections
19:12 <@quantumsummers> hmm, well Sept, Oct or Nov work too
19:12 <@robbat2|na> keep it proposed as August
19:12 <@dabbott> Motion: Add second AGM Sept 18
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 AoB
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I have an iyem ot two
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> item*
19:13 <@quantumsummers> ok. i second dabbott's motion
19:13 <@quantumsummers> to add the interim AGM in Sept
19:13 <@quantumsummers> err, AUG
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> This year only - yes ?
19:13 <@quantumsummers> yes.
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
19:13 <@robbat2|na> aye
19:13 <@dabbott> yes
19:14 <@quantumsummers> aye for August
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion Carried
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 AoB
19:14 <@quantumsummers> then 2012 meeting will be in Aug.
19:14 <@quantumsummers> sorry :D
19:14 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: sir, please continue
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> DVDs for Linux-Tag Can we vote on this please as time is short 
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Proposal to suppoy 100 DVDs 
19:15 <@quantumsummers> Motion: fund ^
19:15 <@dabbott> Motion: Fund  DVDs for Linux-Tag
19:15 <@robbat2|na> is 100 going to be enough?
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, The estimate was 50-100
19:16 <@dabbott> a3li: ^
19:16 <@quantumsummers> if we went with usb drives we could purchase a larger number of them ... though they are several orders of magnitude more money
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> We need to do the experiment to see what the waste (if any) is like
19:16 <@robbat2|na> We did 50 at SCALE, and LinuxTag is larger than SCALE
19:16 <@robbat2|na> by a lot
19:16 <@quantumsummers> I would be happy with 200
19:16 <@dabbott> yes 200 is fine
19:16 <+a3li> if you are willing to provide 200, I'm of course happy about that
19:17 <@quantumsummers> or more really, but likely not more than 500
19:17 <@robbat2|na> what other events do we have this year for potential wastage to get used up?
19:17 <+a3li> 100 is what we handed out at least last year
19:17 <@quantumsummers> linuxcon is this year.
19:17 <+a3li> froscon, CCC camp, 28c3
19:17 <@robbat2|na> (in EU, to avoid shipping)
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> OK - quantity 200
19:17 <@quantumsummers> in Vancouver :)
19:17 <@quantumsummers> ok... 200 second that motion
19:17 <+a3li> we can arrange for storage with the other EU promo material
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> If the Foundation going to place the order or refund a3li ?
19:18 <@quantumsummers> a3li: you are happy with 200? I know a few devs that could take some to local events in EU
19:18 <+a3li> quantumsummers: I am
19:18 <+a3li> NeddySeagoon: I do not have that kind of petty cash
19:18 <@quantumsummers> good question. It should be easy enough for me to pay
19:19 <@quantumsummers> we need a stinkin card'
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion to purchase 200 DVDs for use in europe
19:19 <@quantumsummers> seconded
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote please
19:19 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: http://www.linuxpusher.com/distribution/100xgentoo-linuxtag-2011-dvd
19:19 <@quantumsummers> aye
19:19 <@robbat2|na> aye
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
19:19 <@dabbott> yes
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion Carried
19:20 <@quantumsummers> dabbott which arch should I choose, 100 of each?
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, can you place the order soonest please
19:20 <@quantumsummers> the 32bit is the hybrid right?
19:20 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I can do it on Monday, no problem
19:20 <+a3li> dabbott: 10.2 doesn't sound right
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Its 11.1
19:20 <@robbat2|na> confirm w/ linuxpusher to be sure, but I think it's the hybrid
19:20 <@quantumsummers> a3li: where do I ship them? (email me)
19:20 <@quantumsummers> kk, I will confirm
19:20 <+a3li> quantumsummers: check your inbox
19:20 <+a3li> quantumsummers: (already sent)
19:21 <@quantumsummers> thanks
19:21 <@quantumsummers> so we are looking at ~$550
19:21 <@quantumsummers> not bad really
19:21 <@NeddySeagoon> a3li, Does linuxpusher have artwork ?
19:21 <@robbat2|na> re LinuxCon North America, i don't know if they have community booths, but I can make inquiries via my connections if we want, but I can't man a booth on my own
19:21 <+a3li> NeddySeagoon: he has a 11 cd label for the actual CD
19:21 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: double check with klavs he responds fast
19:21 <@NeddySeagoon> a3lifine
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> a3li fine
19:22 <@quantumsummers> ok
19:22 <+a3li> I understand that he does some outer casing as well?
19:22 <+a3li> for that there is no artwork yet
19:22 <+a3li> or is it just plain white paper sleeves?
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> a3li, to keep the shipping weight down its DVDs and sleeves
19:23 <+likewhoa> guys we have an 11.1 with gnome3,2.6.38 and latest kde-4.6.2 why not burn those and hand them out or is that still a no go since gnome3 from overlay?
19:24 <+a3li> NeddySeagoon: so paper or plastic? and printed or not?
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> likewhoa, How well tested is it ?
19:24 <@quantumsummers> robbat2|na: I would love to attend. I am considering submitting a paper anyway
19:24 <@dabbott> from klavs 
19:24 <@dabbott> I'll package the 100 DVD's on a spindle - and put the 100 CD-pockets
19:24 <@dabbott> in the package if that's ok?
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> a3li, Not sure
19:24 <+likewhoa> NeddySeagoon: looks solid to me but i am going to refine it tonight
19:25 <+a3li> dabbott: I guess I'll ask for clarification then
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> likewhoa, it would raise false expectaions, so I'm not keen to put gnome3 out yet
19:25 <+likewhoa> only problem i found which i am going to file a bug about is the 'power management' section in kde is empty but since suspend/hibernate was turned off it shouldn't matter
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> likewhoa, ~arch is ok - we should show Gentoo off as best we can
19:26 <+likewhoa> NeddySeagoon: understood, when are you planning to purchase the dvds?
19:26 <@quantumsummers> Monday I believe
19:26 <@dabbott> Monday so they get them in time :)
19:26 <+likewhoa> ok that doesn't give me enough time to update 11.0 then
19:27 <@robbat2|na> i think go with 11.0 then
19:27 <@quantumsummers> fine by me
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> likewhoa, we don't want to squeeze production and pat for express frieght
19:27 <@dabbott> 11.0 is solid likewhoa ++
19:27 <+likewhoa> robbat2|na: btw how are the stat downloads on mirrors?
19:27 <@robbat2|na> likewhoa, i can get you stats for bouncer only
19:28 <+likewhoa> i just been watching torrents robbat2|na 
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> The otherthing I had was the request for funding for MIPS boxes.  Please read the email traffic
19:28 <+a3li> while asking for details, should I inform klavs about the increased qty or will you do that?
19:29 <@dabbott> a3li: go ahead and tell him what you want
19:29 <@quantumsummers> a3li: I have not received your email
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> A single point of contact would be good
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> We don't want klavs hearing different things from different people
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, it was sent days ago
19:30 <@dabbott> livedvd-x86-amd64-32ul-11.0.iso < I think this is the one you want  
19:30 <+a3li> quantumsummers: the address is in my first email
19:30 <@quantumsummers> oh, heh
19:30 <@quantumsummers> :D
19:30 <+likewhoa> yea the hybrid one will be good for everyone
19:30 <@quantumsummers> cool
19:31 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: anymore AoB?
19:32 <@dabbott> sorry NeddySeagoon the mips box
19:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Will you be our single point of contact with klavs please, since you will be placing the order
19:32 <@quantumsummers> I can do that, NeddySeagoon
19:32 <+a3li> NeddySeagoon: do you imply that I shall not send email?
19:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, just to remind everyone to read emails on the request for MIPS boxes
19:32 <@robbat2|na> the MIPS box bit should be a public bug (as text), but i have no objections, since the SWARM boards are good and mattst88 has them already
19:33 <@quantumsummers> a3li: go ahead and email with the quantity
19:33 <@quantumsummers> I will followup
19:33 <+a3li> kk
19:33 <@quantumsummers> make sure to CC trustees
19:33 <@NeddySeagoon> a3li, not directly to klavs please.  quantumsummers can collect the info and passit all on with the order
19:33 <@quantumsummers> ah, very well
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> a3li, it avoids scewups
19:34 <@quantumsummers> no  prob
19:34 <@quantumsummers> as long as I don't screw it up :D
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, heh
19:34 <+a3li> so, please ask what is printed. only media labels? or also case/sleeve/whatever labels?
19:34 <@quantumsummers> a3li: sure
19:35 <@quantumsummers> sounds like its just the dvds
19:35 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do you have any AoB ?
19:35 <@quantumsummers> nope
19:35 <@quantumsummers> for once :)
19:35 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, any AoB ?
19:36 <@dabbott> no
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, your turn
19:36 <@robbat2|na> no AoB from me, the StartSSL stuff is on the bug & mail alias
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, yep, I saw it on the alias
19:36 <@quantumsummers> that is a nice deal
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 7  Open floor
19:36 <@quantumsummers> and for the record
19:37 <@quantumsummers> the ads system can accommodate varying values
19:37 <@quantumsummers> in a randomly equitable manner
19:37  * quantumsummers done
19:37 <@quantumsummers> Any open floor?
19:37  * quantumsummers is a tad surprised
19:38  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the AGM
