Jun 19 15:00:02 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the June 2011 Gentoo Foundation Inc. Trustees meeting
Jun 19 15:00:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call,   I'm logging.  Timestamps are all over the place - its a Xen DomU
Jun 19 15:00:49 <rich0>	here, and stationary...  :)
Jun 19 15:00:55 <dabbott>	here
Jun 19 15:00:58 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, apologies - may be along later
Jun 19 15:01:05 <robbat2>	here, logging as well
Jun 19 15:01:21 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum - lets start
Jun 19 15:01:31 <NeddySeagoon>	    Larry Logo | Font News Item?
Jun 19 15:01:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets fix our site with the agreed attributions first
Jun 19 15:02:04 <NeddySeagoon>	thoughts ?
Jun 19 15:02:14 <robbat2>	+1, what bits are left to fix?
Jun 19 15:02:39 <rich0>	Plans all seem fine to me - just need to do it I think.
Jun 19 15:02:47 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, put the wording on the 403, 404 and artwork page
Jun 19 15:03:12 <NeddySeagoon>	we agreed wording and placement 
Jun 19 15:03:21 <robbat2>	got the msg-id for the final version of the wording quickly?
Jun 19 15:04:07 <NeddySeagoon>	<1307557321.2923.1@NeddySeagoon>
Jun 19 15:04:18 <robbat2>	thx
Jun 19 15:04:28 <robbat2>	i'll make it live while we're busy w/ the rest of the meeting
Jun 19 15:04:31 <NeddySeagoon>	Ethan just said 'yes'
Jun 19 15:04:39 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jun 19 15:05:09 <NeddySeagoon>	Larry the Cow T Shirt Funding
Jun 19 15:05:40 <NeddySeagoon>	+1 from me, now we have the licence sorted out
Jun 19 15:05:40 <dabbott>	This should be completed in the next month, will need quantumsummers_ to pay for the shirts
Jun 19 15:06:13 <dabbott>	unless there is enough in the account
Jun 19 15:06:34 <robbat2>	i think there was a cafepress payout recently, so unsure
Jun 19 15:06:42 <NeddySeagoon>	I suppose we should poke known Larry users too ...
Jun 19 15:07:16 <dabbott>	maybe we can do the news item all together
Jun 19 15:07:23 <NeddySeagoon>	e.g. likewoah for the liveCD and other artists
Jun 19 15:08:00 <dabbott>	announce the t shirts along with the announcement
Jun 19 15:08:13 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I like that
Jun 19 15:08:16 <rich0>	Is there someplace we track our financial status?  We get a lot of requests to fund this and that, and the amounts are generally small, but it is hard to tell exactly how much we have to spend/etc.
Jun 19 15:08:38 <robbat2>	quantumsummers_ has a listing i believe, but it would be nice if it was more open
Jun 19 15:08:54 <rich0>	Agree that pairing the t-shirt announcement with the larry news is a great idea!
Jun 19 15:08:56 <robbat2>	i had an idea of doing something for that w/ him, but never followed up due to lack of free time
Jun 19 15:09:12 <dabbott>	I could keep it updated if we were sent the info
Jun 19 15:09:19 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, its on the web somewhere but its about 6 months out of date.  Its our FY end on 30 June, so quantumsummers_ will be updating then
Jun 19 15:09:31 <rich0>	I can understand if we need to keep it somewhat closed.  A detailed register should be closed, but summary info probably should be made reasonably public at some point (maybe when our IRS situation is in order).
Jun 19 15:10:17 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, we have to file quarterly, that filing is public and its what normally goes on the web
Jun 19 15:10:27 <rich0>	Ok, that was a bit offtopic - just the concept of spending money called to my attention that we should probably keep an eye on this stuff.  Again, the amounts are low so probably not a big deal.
Jun 19 15:12:19 <NeddySeagoon>	we can come back to quantumsummers bit, if/when he shows
Jun 19 15:12:54 <dabbott>	It needs to be updated http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/index.xml
Jun 19 15:12:59 <NeddySeagoon>	That gets us to Bugs.  I've been away for 8 days, so I've not done my homework
Jun 19 15:13:29 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, yep, quantumsummers_ wanted to wait until FY end
Jun 19 15:14:38 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 351045 	
Jun 19 15:14:40 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/351045 "www site needs a privacy policy"; Website www.gentoo.org, Social Contract; CONF; robbat2:infra-bugs
Jun 19 15:15:02 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, you missed my lineitem for SSL. on which there is no news
Jun 19 15:15:32 <robbat2>	relatedly to the privacy policy, there is a bug filed this week
Jun 19 15:15:37 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, sorry about that. 
Jun 19 15:16:21 <robbat2>	!bug 372101
Jun 19 15:16:23 <willikins>	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/372101 "Bugzilla does not obey DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC"; Bugzilla, General Bugs; UNCO; dark:infra-bugs
Jun 19 15:16:35 <robbat2>	that's privacy policy
Jun 19 15:16:56 <robbat2>	in there I proposed one course of action that the rest of infra seems in favour of
Jun 19 15:17:26 <robbat2>	specifically having a privacy page that includes the SSH login banner that you see when you login to any of our boxes
Jun 19 15:17:35 <robbat2>	as well as the privacy policy segment from lists.g.o
Jun 19 15:17:53 <NeddySeagoon>	I suspect we can't have a privacy policy that works all over the world. 
Jun 19 15:17:54 <robbat2>	http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/lists.xml <-- bottom of the page
Jun 19 15:18:28 <robbat2>	ah, Debian has updated theirs to include more disclaimer
Jun 19 15:19:18 <robbat2>	complying w/ 95/46/EC fully would neuter Bugzilla entirely, so we need to find a reasonable compromise
Jun 19 15:19:30 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, has asked the SFLC for an opinion.  Lets wait until we get a response
Jun 19 15:19:43 <robbat2>	i'll put my draft stuff together prior to that
Jun 19 15:19:52 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Jun 19 15:21:00 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 293309
Jun 19 15:21:05 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/293309 "x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme Gentoo branding (see comment #19)"; Gentoo Linux, GNOME; CONF; fastijum:licenses
Jun 19 15:21:49 <robbat2>	comment 24 on there had the question for us
Jun 19 15:21:49 <NeddySeagoon>	We should probably fix the usage guidelines as you suggest robbat2 
Jun 19 15:22:34 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't see it being used outside of Gentoo
Jun 19 15:23:41 <rich0>	I think the key is to have one updated logo usage page and then reference that everywhere else.
Jun 19 15:23:44 <NeddySeagoon>	No strong feelings either way - we could just handle requests as they arise
Jun 19 15:24:58 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, yep, if we have the same info in two places both will be  a) wrong and b) contradictory. 
Jun 19 15:25:10 <robbat2>	proj/en/desktop/artwork/artwork.xml <-- seems to be updated for the fonthead bits already, and i'm just committing the 404/410 pages now
Jun 19 15:25:20 <rich0>	I think the key should be to define the situations when others can use the logo, and beyond that it is purely by-request.
Jun 19 15:25:36 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, yep
Jun 19 15:25:47 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 369181
Jun 19 15:25:49 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369181 "[PATCH] Copyright footer <license/> needs improvement"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:28:30 <NeddySeagoon>	The contents of this document are licensed under the Creative Commons - Attribution / Share Alike license.  is clearly wrong on that page.  Its discussing our logo and trademarks
Jun 19 15:28:31 <rich0>	I like sping's wording here.
Jun 19 15:29:16 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, we cannot licence our logo under the CC-SA licence
Jun 19 15:30:05 <NeddySeagoon>	we should just remove the The contents of this document are licensed under the Creative Commons - Attribution / Share Alike license.   line in the footer and maybe clarify the reat
Jun 19 15:30:14 <rich0>	I was thinking about that
Jun 19 15:30:43 <NeddySeagoon>	After all, most of the other text says what is permitted/denied
Jun 19 15:30:43 <robbat2>	one request re his wording there
Jun 19 15:30:50 <rich0>	Why not just state on ALL pages "Copyright 2011 Gentoo Foundation, Inc" and have a license page somewhere with the details.
Jun 19 15:31:07 <rich0>	Then we don't have to fit everything in a one-liner on every single page.
Jun 19 15:31:11 <robbat2>	rich0, no, CC wants it per-page recalling somewhere in the detailed discussion
Jun 19 15:31:28 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, thats a relicencing mess - we don't want to get into that
Jun 19 15:31:33 <rich0>	That license page could have the gory details and suitable disclaimers, references to logo usage, etc.
Jun 19 15:31:43 <robbat2>	but I'd like to trim: "Creative Commons - Attribution Share Alive 2.5" to CC-BY-SA-2.5
Jun 19 15:31:53 <rich0>	I'm not suggesting that we change the license, only that we link to it instead of writing it on every page.  Just a thought.
Jun 19 15:32:15 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, how can we use CC-BY-SA-2.5 on that page at all ?
Jun 19 15:32:25 <robbat2>	it's the footer
Jun 19 15:32:41 <robbat2>	doc/en/inserts.xml is the source file
Jun 19 15:32:52 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, yes - but it does not apply to the page content
Jun 19 15:34:17 <robbat2>	actually, it's a little more complicated than that
Jun 19 15:34:27 <robbat2>	if you include an empty <license/> tag
Jun 19 15:34:34 <robbat2>	then the default license text gets used
Jun 19 15:34:43 <dabbott>	yep
Jun 19 15:34:55 <robbat2>	that is 99.9% of our pages right now
Jun 19 15:34:59 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, we can't claim copyright over the entire content of the site.  In Germany for instance, its not possible to assign copyright
Jun 19 15:35:40 <robbat2>	we claim it already, i'm not changing that at all. just how it's displayed
Jun 19 15:35:56 <rich0>	The front page already has at the bottom "Copyright 2001-2011 Gentoo Foundation, Inc. Questions, Comments? Contact us."
Jun 19 15:36:36 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, its probably true for 99.9% of pages but that particular page is about how our marks/logos can be used and CC-BY-SA-2.5 isn't one of the ways
Jun 19 15:36:45 <robbat2>	err, you're mixing pages now
Jun 19 15:36:56 <robbat2>	we're not talking about marks naymore
Jun 19 15:37:05 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, don't tell sping and friends :)
Jun 19 15:37:05 <robbat2>	we're talking strictly about bug 369181
Jun 19 15:37:07 <willikins>	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369181 "[PATCH] Copyright footer <license/> needs improvement"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:37:58 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, the bug references  http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/name-logo.xml
Jun 19 15:38:41 <robbat2>	"The Gentoo Name and Logo Usage Guidelines [2] apply."
Jun 19 15:38:51 <robbat2>	that covers the logo, the CC-BY-SA is for the text on the site
Jun 19 15:38:51 <NeddySeagoon>	OK.
Jun 19 15:39:03 <NeddySeagoon>	agreed
Jun 19 15:39:09 <robbat2>	the "unless otherwise expressly stated" phrase is really important here
Jun 19 15:39:18 <rich0>	I think that does cover us.
Jun 19 15:39:19 <NeddySeagoon>	I did warn you that I had not done my homework
Jun 19 15:39:32 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, yep
Jun 19 15:39:56 <rich0>	Seems like copyright is another long-term issue to deal with - not that we need to resolve it today.
Jun 19 15:40:27 <rich0>	In any case, I think the goal is to keep per-page info short and snappy, and then just reference someplace with the gory details.
Jun 19 15:40:33 <robbat2>	are we happy w/ the base proposal of bug 369181?
Jun 19 15:40:33 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, yeah.  Its a PITA.
Jun 19 15:40:34 <willikins>	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369181 "[PATCH] Copyright footer <license/> needs improvement"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:40:38 <dabbott>	I am all for a condensed  <license/> CC-BY-SA-2.5
Jun 19 15:40:44 <robbat2>	w/ the shrunk bit
Jun 19 15:40:54 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, yes - I'm OK with  bug 369181
Jun 19 15:40:54 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369181 "[PATCH] Copyright footer <license/> needs improvement"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:40:55 <dabbott>	yes
Jun 19 15:41:09 <rich0>	I'm fine with the condensed bit, if it links to the full license.
Jun 19 15:41:32 <rich0>	Fine with the bug either way.
Jun 19 15:41:33 <NeddySeagoon>	 CC-BY-SA-2.5 as a link   is +1 from me
Jun 19 15:41:50 <robbat2>	ok, i've committed it w/ that :-)
Jun 19 15:41:55 <NeddySeagoon>	heh
Jun 19 15:42:01 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 369185
Jun 19 15:42:03 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369185 "Official "g" logo should be declared as licensed under "CC-BY-SA/2.5 or CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0" explicitly"; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:42:17 <NeddySeagoon>	I will have to go in 5 min - I can hear dinner being served
Jun 19 15:42:48 <NeddySeagoon>	 CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0" explicitly sounds about right
Jun 19 15:43:08 <robbat2>	ok
Jun 19 15:43:11 <dabbott>	fine by me 
Jun 19 15:43:21 <robbat2>	yeah we approved it already last year
Jun 19 15:43:23 <robbat2>	just need to update the page
Jun 19 15:43:24 <NeddySeagoon>	CC-BY-SA/2.5 is clearly wrong
Jun 19 15:43:28 <robbat2>	as CCPL
Jun 19 15:43:34 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Jun 19 15:44:04 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 369725
Jun 19 15:44:05 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369725 "Satisfy attribution on xml/htdocs/errors/en/*.xml"; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:44:17 <dabbott>	or add another <license/> tag to cover it
Jun 19 15:44:39 <robbat2>	i committed that minutes ago already
Jun 19 15:44:43 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, youu have just fixed them 
Jun 19 15:45:02 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 371429
Jun 19 15:45:04 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/371429 "Check legal aspects of "Larry on Redmond Hills""; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:45:22 <dabbott>	a new tag to cover CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0
Jun 19 15:46:01 <robbat2>	dabbott, i'll deal w/ the CCPL side.
Jun 19 15:46:17 <robbat2>	re the redmond hills, do we need to worry about it being based on the XP wallpaper?
Jun 19 15:46:23 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't like the sound of that "Larry on Redmond Hills" at all.
Jun 19 15:46:25 <rich0>	That is my main concern.
Jun 19 15:46:36 <rich0>	Is it a derivative work?
Jun 19 15:46:48 <robbat2>	IANAL, but I think so
Jun 19 15:46:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Someone will own the copyright in the image
Jun 19 15:47:15 <NeddySeagoon>	If its MS, they will say no
Jun 19 15:48:04 <dabbott>	Its more trouble than it is worth dealing with
Jun 19 15:48:07 <rich0>	Just compared to the originals at: http://www.damncoolpictures.com/2009/04/origin-of-windows-xp-default-wallpaper.html
Jun 19 15:48:11 <robbat2>	http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bliss_%28image%29
Jun 19 15:48:24 <rich0>	Seems almost certainly to be covered by copyright - we can't use it without a license.
Jun 19 15:48:27 <dabbott>	he said he traced it from an xp wallpaper
Jun 19 15:48:49 <rich0>	If it were just a bunch of hills, grass, and clouds (but not THIS hill, grass, and cloud arrangement) we might be ok.
Jun 19 15:49:07 <robbat2>	ok, so it's definitely a derivative then, unless we send somebody out there to take a new photo of said hill
Jun 19 15:49:39 <rich0>	Believe it or not even that can get touchy - not that it will happen.
Jun 19 15:49:40 <NeddySeagoon>	Its more trouble than its worth
Jun 19 15:50:55 <rich0>	Ok, so no hosting on Gentoo, or official links/etc seems best.
Jun 19 15:51:16 <NeddySeagoon>	!Bug 371543
Jun 19 15:51:16 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: incorrect usage, ask for help using 'willikins: help bug'
Jun 19 15:51:23 <robbat2>	hmm, that's a bug I should fix
Jun 19 15:51:23 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 371543
Jun 19 15:51:25 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/371543 "Offer vector graphic of newage/modern "gentoo" text"; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics; CONF; sping:trustees
Jun 19 15:52:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Not a problem.  Our mark is the word Gentoo - regardless of font
Jun 19 15:53:33 <rich0>	Should make sure copyright is assigned or understood if we're going to offer it officially.
Jun 19 15:53:46 <rich0>	Agree the mark applies regardless.
Jun 19 15:54:05 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, if its from sping, he can't do that
Jun 19 15:54:19 <rich0>	"or understood"  :)
Jun 19 15:54:22 <robbat2>	he can get a vector image together for us to review
Jun 19 15:55:02 <NeddySeagoon>	the best we could get would be a "free to use" agreement 
Jun 19 15:55:40 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, are you updating the bug to request that ?
Jun 19 15:56:18 <robbat2>	ok, i will
Jun 19 15:56:23 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 371825 
Jun 19 15:56:25 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/371825 "Please order replacement drive for barbet.gentoo.org"; Gentoo Infrastructure, Other; CONF; darkside:trustees
Jun 19 15:56:51 <rich0>	NeddySeagoon, probably wouldn't hurt for him to clearly license it appropriately CC-BY-SA or whatever.
Jun 19 15:56:58 <NeddySeagoon>	-infra have a $1000 spares and repairs budget - so this need not come to us
Jun 19 15:57:01 <dabbott>	should be covered with the infra budget
Jun 19 15:57:20 <rich0>	NeddySeagoon, good to hear - makes sense to actually budget for this stuff and then not micromanage.
Jun 19 15:57:23 <dabbott>	if not we need to up the budget :)
Jun 19 15:57:45 <robbat2>	that's an infra item, not sure why darkside assigned to trustees
Jun 19 15:57:48 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, I have a problem with our marks and  CC-BY-SA ... its almost like allowing them to be public domain
Jun 19 15:58:08 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, its renewed on 1st July
Jun 19 15:58:32 <rich0>	NeddySeagoon, I'm not suggesting we should allow the use of the marks - only that he as the author should license it for copyright.  Maybe we should just get him to agree that it can be used in accordance with the logo guidelines.
Jun 19 15:58:32 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 33740
Jun 19 15:58:33 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/33740 "Reply address and fax-phone number missing"; Gentoo Infrastructure, Forums; IN_P; bugs-gentoo:trustees
Jun 19 15:58:52 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, that works
Jun 19 15:59:12 <NeddySeagoon>	I thought we were going to close that as wontfix
Jun 19 15:59:46 <robbat2>	ok, will close/re-assign to forums
Jun 19 16:00:14 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, nothing will happen until we get PHP-BB 3 anyway
Jun 19 16:00:32 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 285549 	
Jun 19 16:00:33 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549 "Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; IN_P; belendax:trustees
Jun 19 16:00:43 <NeddySeagoon>	awaiting advice from SFLC
Jun 19 16:01:03 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 296766 	
Jun 19 16:01:05 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; robbat2:trustees
Jun 19 16:01:20 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers_, should have fixed that
Jun 19 16:02:19 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 304853
Jun 19 16:02:21 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304853 "Not possible to purchase Larry the cow clothing"; User Relations, User/Developer Issues; IN_P; mihel:trustees
Jun 19 16:02:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats about to be fixed
Jun 19 16:02:47 <NeddySeagoon>	!bug 343975
Jun 19 16:02:48 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/343975 "Funding Request: SATA HDD for ARMv7 Development"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; RESO, FIXE; darkside:trustees
Jun 19 16:03:21 <robbat2>	that's resolved already
Jun 19 16:03:31 <NeddySeagoon>	Hmm - it says IN_P...  but its fixed
Jun 19 16:03:40 <rich0>	Hit refresh
Jun 19 16:03:55 <dabbott>	On the new mexico website don't you just put Gentoo in search to get to the info ?
Jun 19 16:04:25 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, you hadn't updated your search page ;-)
Jun 19 16:04:33 <robbat2>	dabbott, in one of the boxes yes
Jun 19 16:04:38 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I'm in firefox as galeon broke on me, so I've lost the link I had :(
Jun 19 16:05:23 <dabbott>	No Records Found http://164.64.53.200/CorpSearch/%28S%28lyyitmn1g0puvfjfa3woac45%29%29/CorpSearch.aspx?2463313+GENTOO+FOUNDATION+INC//
Jun 19 16:05:43 <NeddySeagoon>	I need to go.   I'll be back as soon as I can.  robbat2 would you take over the chair please
Jun 19 16:05:47 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, go
Jun 19 16:05:48 <rich0>	Odd
Jun 19 16:05:53 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Jun 19 16:06:00 <dabbott>	later NeddySeagoon 
Jun 19 16:06:01 <robbat2>	!bug 363871
Jun 19 16:06:02 <willikins>	https://bugs.gentoo.org/363871 "Consider StartSSL certificate offer"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; robbat2:infra-bugs
Jun 19 16:06:06 <robbat2>	that's in progress with me still
Jun 19 16:06:22 <robbat2>	and I think that covers all of the bugs
Jun 19 16:06:55 <robbat2>	rich0, dabbott: did I miss any bugs before we move to new business?
Jun 19 16:07:48 <dabbott>	no thats it
Jun 19 16:07:52 <rich0>	don't think so
Jun 19 16:08:00 <robbat2>	ok, new business.
Jun 19 16:08:21 <robbat2>	5.1. upcoming purchase request for masterdistfiles.gentoo.org hardware
Jun 19 16:08:46 <robbat2>	i think infra should just put the purchase req together and submit it, I don't have any concerns about it.
Jun 19 16:09:07 <dabbott>	+1 whatever is needed
Jun 19 16:09:19 <rich0>	Don't think I've heard about that one.
Jun 19 16:09:54 <robbat2>	it dates back to last year, when GNi was closing down, we wanted to purchase two new machines as replacements for some of the stuff that was at GNi
Jun 19 16:10:01 <robbat2>	but we found some sponsor hardware instead
Jun 19 16:10:23 <robbat2>	but for masterdistfiles, we really need a high-storage box physically located at OSL
Jun 19 16:10:43 <robbat2>	since that's where we have to feed the mirror infrastructure from
Jun 19 16:11:43 <rich0>	Ok, seems reasonable.  Has the proposal already been circulated?
Jun 19 16:11:52 <rich0>	Or are we asking them to write one up for a final OK?
Jun 19 16:12:07 <robbat2>	there was a rough version last year, that needs a write up
Jun 19 16:12:23 <rich0>	I'm also fine with giving a general budget to operate in and leaving it up to infra to work out the details.
Jun 19 16:12:24 <robbat2>	moving on then
Jun 19 16:12:28 <rich0>	ok
Jun 19 16:12:36 <robbat2>	5.2. FISL conference funding
Jun 19 16:12:39 <robbat2>	rafaelmartins are you here?
Jun 19 16:12:49 <rafaelmartins>	here
Jun 19 16:13:13 <robbat2>	your last response said you were going to get back to us
Jun 19 16:13:36 <robbat2>	since it's next week, i hope you've found somewhere local to make them for you, or you're burning already
Jun 19 16:13:48 <rafaelmartins>	ok... it's almost impossible to find a company there that gets an iso and artwork, and get paid using paypal
Jun 19 16:14:34 <rafaelmartins>	then I'll pay it myself and ask for reimburse, if you guys approve the funding
Jun 19 16:14:46 <robbat2>	do you have a ballpark figure?
Jun 19 16:15:45 <rafaelmartins>	I'll do 200 copies... a copy should cost ~1 USD there... I'll have a final value tomorrow
Jun 19 16:16:29 <dabbott>	ok
Jun 19 16:16:51 <robbat2>	rich0, dabbott, proposal of up to $250USD to reimburse rafaelmartins for his DVDs?
Jun 19 16:17:01 <dabbott>	seconded
Jun 19 16:17:06 <rich0>	aye
Jun 19 16:17:11 <dabbott>	yes
Jun 19 16:17:12 <robbat2>	carried
Jun 19 16:17:16 <robbat2>	aye
Jun 19 16:17:31 <rich0>	Again, wouldn't hurt long-term to equip somebody in the EU for these sorts of things long-term to save costs.
Jun 19 16:17:38 <robbat2>	rich0, he's in brazil
Jun 19 16:17:40 <rich0>	No bearing on present situation.
Jun 19 16:17:41 <robbat2>	not EU
Jun 19 16:17:42 <rich0>	yup
Jun 19 16:17:51 <rafaelmartins>	yeah :(
Jun 19 16:18:02 <rich0>	EU just a special case with VAT and open borders/etc.
Jun 19 16:18:18 <dabbott>	rafaelmartins, take a picture of the receipt and send it to us for our records
Jun 19 16:18:26 <robbat2>	rafaelmartins, you're good to go. please open a bug with a scan of your invoice (redact your CC # please) for reimbursement
Jun 19 16:18:27 <rafaelmartins>	dabbott, of course
Jun 19 16:18:39 <rafaelmartins>	thank you guys :)
Jun 19 16:18:43 <rafaelmartins>	robbat2, ok
Jun 19 16:18:55 <rich0>	rafaelmartins, Thanks for representing Gentoo!  :)
Jun 19 16:18:56 <dabbott>	np, thanks for doing it
Jun 19 16:19:16 <robbat2>	5.3. gentoo.xxx domain
Jun 19 16:19:53 <robbat2>	background: the .xxx TLD is opening up, and unlike other TLDs, there is a period upfront that can be used to blacklist the domain forever
Jun 19 16:20:20 <robbat2>	however it costs $200USD+vat
Jun 19 16:20:45 <dabbott>	no one is going to think of Gentoo Linux when the vist gentoo.xxx I say don't wotrry about it
Jun 19 16:20:51 <rich0>	++
Jun 19 16:21:04 <rich0>	Christian made a good argument.
Jun 19 16:21:16 <rich0>	Unless we're going to buy every TLD, what's the point?
Jun 19 16:21:22 <robbat2>	agreed
Jun 19 16:21:32 <robbat2>	ok, so we resolve to ignore the .xxx TLD
Jun 19 16:21:37 <rich0>	If they use the logo/etc then we have a case against them.
Jun 19 16:21:49 <robbat2>	on entirely seperate and more solid grounds
Jun 19 16:22:23 <robbat2>	ok, that's all of the new business on the agenda
Jun 19 16:22:34 <robbat2>	any other new business items that weren't agenda'd ahead of time?
Jun 19 16:23:02 <rich0>	None here.
Jun 19 16:23:21 <dabbott>	I can't think of anything
Jun 19 16:23:55 <robbat2>	6. membership applications
Jun 19 16:24:02 <robbat2>	none this month that I see
Jun 19 16:24:10 <robbat2>	7. advertising requests
Jun 19 16:24:11 <robbat2>	also none
Jun 19 16:24:24 <robbat2>	lastly cleanup stuff
Jun 19 16:24:27 <dabbott>	when were we going to do another meeting for an additional Treasure Report
Jun 19 16:24:41 <robbat2>	i don't know. that needs quantumsummers_
Jun 19 16:25:18 <robbat2>	Date of Next Meeting - 17th Jul 2011 19:00 UTC
Jun 19 16:25:35 <dabbott>	fine here afaik
Jun 19 16:26:13 <robbat2>	rich0, good for you?
Jun 19 16:26:22 <robbat2>	it works for me
Jun 19 16:26:24 <rich0>	Fine here - gotta fix the Google Calendar...
Jun 19 16:26:45 <robbat2>	ok, that's set then
Jun 19 16:26:50 <robbat2>	any other business?
Jun 19 16:27:05 <rich0>	Somebody had it at 19:00 EST, now I set it to 19:00 GMT+0, which somehow is treated as BST.
Jun 19 16:27:17 <robbat2>	ah
Jun 19 16:27:42 <robbat2>	any other business, going once
Jun 19 16:28:01 <robbat2>	twice
Jun 19 16:28:20 <robbat2>	ok, moving on
Jun 19 16:28:37 <robbat2>	i'll post the log + minutes
Jun 19 16:28:39 <dabbott>	I can do both I think I have a log here 
Jun 19 16:28:53 <robbat2>	ok, i'll defer to you, i've got a bunch of infra stuff for this afternoon
Jun 19 16:29:08 <robbat2>	i'll do the motions listing from your minutes
Jun 19 16:29:19 <robbat2>	i don't think we have any emails to send
Jun 19 16:29:31 <robbat2>	so that just leaves open floor
Jun 19 16:30:13 <dabbott>	just the one motion $250USD to reimburse rafaelmartins for his DVDs
Jun 19 16:30:31 <antarus>	Wait, we can reimburse porn purchases?
Jun 19 16:31:01 <robbat2>	antarus, you'll have to work it off in trade, "devs of a gentoo" calendar
Jun 19 16:31:07 <robbat2>	*"Devs of Gentoo"
Jun 19 16:31:52 <robbat2>	nothing else for open floor, so I declare this meeting closed
Jun 19 16:31:59 *	robbat2 bangs his imaginary gavel
