20:01  * bluebottle bangs the gavel to call the September meeting to order
20:01 <@bluebottle> roll call
20:01 <@dabbott> here
20:02 <@bluebottle> I'm on my netbook as my main box just locked up
20:02 <@quantumsummers> present
20:02 <@bluebottle> quantumsummers, robbat2 
20:02 <@rich0> here
20:03 <@bluebottle> robbat2, 
20:03 <@bluebottle> OK lets start ... would someone else like to chair?
20:03 <@robbat2> hi
20:03 <@bluebottle> 1024x800 is a bit cramped
20:03 <@robbat2> just in time :-)
20:04 <@quantumsummers> bluebottle: I can chair, if you like.
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks.  My main box just decided to speak to me
20:05 <@quantumsummers> it happens ;)
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Whos logging ?   I am
20:05 <@robbat2> my logs are always on
20:05 <@quantumsummers> thanks NeddySeagoon, for logging.
20:05 <@quantumsummers> 3) Old business.
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> carry on quantumsummers you have the chair
20:06 <@quantumsummers> Looks like its me. :)
20:06  * NeddySeagoon passes the gavel
20:06 <@quantumsummers> thanks
20:06 <@quantumsummers> ok, 1.) Financials
20:06 <@quantumsummers> 1.1 robbat2 still need send you the files for archival
20:07 <@quantumsummers> 1.2 working on xml-ing the report
20:07 <@robbat2> yeah, also I wanted to see about Ledger format for them (for anonymized publication)
20:07 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: right, that is fine. We do need to redact the hell out of the paypalfiles
20:08 <@quantumsummers> that is trivial, mostly
20:08 < darkside_> ls
20:08 <@quantumsummers> darkside_: hmm?
20:09 < darkside_> sorry
20:09 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:09 <@quantumsummers> \np
20:09 <@quantumsummers> 2. SFLC
20:09 <@robbat2> re that really quickly, the best form I came up with is replacing it with [paypal-user-$TIMESTAMP], so correlations (publishing patterns of the same person) can be avoided
20:09 <@quantumsummers> replacing what exactly?
20:10 -!- Arfrever [~Arfrever@gentoo/developer/Arfrever] has quit [Ping timeout: 260 seconds]
20:10 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, their name in the Ledger source
20:10 <@robbat2> anyway, reso later
20:10 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: I see. Why not strip it before converting to Ledger?
20:10 <@robbat2> i'll show you later
20:10 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:10 <@quantumsummers> 2. SFLC nothing to report.
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need to make each and every paypal transaction public?   We need to keep traceability internally.  Is a periodic total adequate ?
20:11 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, i was going to publish the anonymized Ledger files to show complete accounting history for us, just makes it easier to trace bugs
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, OK.  I was looking to minimise the workload
20:12 <@quantumsummers> we are not technically required to post any data beyond the reports, at least by any law in the US
20:12 <@robbat2> i have build scripts for ledgers ;-)
20:12 <@quantumsummers> cool
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, that sounds pretty minimal then
20:13 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, next item, CPA
20:13 <@quantumsummers> 3. CPA: they should be finished preparing this years filings in the next week or so for our review. 
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> will they be billing us ?
20:13 <@quantumsummers> so, I'll pass that around before I sign it
20:13 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes, after everything is filed we will be invoiced
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Good - like a proper business
20:14 <@quantumsummers> I expect the bill in mid October
20:14 <@rich0> Will that completely catch us up?
20:14 <@quantumsummers> we can take awhile to pay with a 1% finance fee if we need (not necessary from my POV)
20:15 <@quantumsummers> rich0: we shall see. I am optimistic that everything is in order.
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> We should pay our bills on time - no need to incurr interest on the invoice
20:15 <@rich0> wonderful!
20:15 <@quantumsummers> Since we were able to get quite a few years of data to them, there were no real issues
20:15 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I agree
20:15 <@rich0> Agreed - no sense financing with our present situation unless you tell me the bills is $40k or something crazy.
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thats all the history we need for 501c3 too ?
20:16 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: that is what I have been told
20:16 <@quantumsummers> we have paypal back to the beginning
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats a huge milestone.  Well done
20:16 <@quantumsummers> Thanks. It was a huge pain to download all that stuff. 
20:16 <@rich0> Yes - a very nice turn of events.
20:17 <@quantumsummers> CPA was happy with the data
20:17 <@quantumsummers> they are working with it, minimal questions so far
20:17 <@quantumsummers> ok, so that is CPA
20:17 <@quantumsummers> 4) 1023
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> The CPA needs to get this out of the way before progressing 501c3 ?
20:18 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: no
20:18 <@quantumsummers> but it will all be done about the same time
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> Ah , ok
20:19 <@quantumsummers> I have lucked out and gotten a couple of attorneys that I am working with to bolster our bylaws
20:19 <@quantumsummers> they are working pro bono for the soncult
20:19 <@quantumsummers> *consult
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds good
20:19 <@quantumsummers> we need a bunch of additional legalese
20:19 <@quantumsummers> apparently
20:19 <@quantumsummers> its mostly boiler plate
20:20 <@quantumsummers> my wife and I are working on some of the descriptive narrative still
20:20 <@quantumsummers> Haven't had as much time  as I had hoped due to deadlines with work.
20:21 <@quantumsummers> In any case, it will be ready soon enough
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need to have the membership vote on it or is its a case its 'must have'  so there is nothing to vote on ?
20:22 <@quantumsummers> Much of it is required. There is no technical reason to have the membership vote.
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> That keeps it simplle - I'm all for that
20:22 <@rich0> I'd recommend posting the proposed new bylaws to -nfp for openness.
20:22 <@quantumsummers> We will need to ratify the document, however. Then I will sign it
20:22 <@quantumsummers> rich0: Ok. not a problem.
20:23 <@quantumsummers> They will be published as part of the public record regardless
20:23 <@rich0> In the likely event that there are no strong opinions then we'll just move forward.  
20:23 <@quantumsummers> Alright. Sounds fine.
20:23 <@rich0> Just trying to keep the community spirit - avoid bureaucracy but not openness.
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, The bylaws require that we notify the members before changes come into force - so it will go the -foundation-announce list but no harm in brining it to the attention of prospective menbers too
20:24 <@quantumsummers> rich0: I agree completely, I believe the spirit is secured
20:24 <@quantumsummers> I think of the material being added like function decorators in python.
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
20:25 <@rich0> Agreed
20:25 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll wait until I read it. 
20:25 <@quantumsummers> any further questions for me?
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> Not from me
20:26 <@quantumsummers> 1..2..3..moving on
20:26 <@quantumsummers> Mr.  Robin robbat2 Johnson
20:26 <@robbat2> yes?
20:26 <@quantumsummers> Please update us on the SSL, good sir.
20:26 <@robbat2> ah, SSL
20:27 <@robbat2> no response from any of the vendors to my questions re PII or wildcards
20:27 <@robbat2> i think all of them are in a holding pattern re the current state of the CA world
20:27 <@robbat2> it's a house of cards that's coming down
20:27 <@quantumsummers> Its that bad?
20:27 <@rich0> I was going to suggest that we could probably get a really good rate from DigiNotar.
20:28 <@robbat2> i think it's going get even worse
20:28 <@rich0> It would only be somewhat less useless than cacert.  :)
20:28 <@robbat2> several things need to happen to improve the state of affairs
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, care to summarise the issues ?
20:28 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: in that case, we may need to take some precautions of our own.
20:28 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, basically, the guy that did DigiNotar in also claims to have hit several other CAs
20:28 <@robbat2> whom have mostly denied it
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Thanks
20:29 <@robbat2> but so did DigiNotar at first
20:29 <@robbat2> anyway, the potential improvements:
20:30 <@robbat2> option a) CA centralization as we know it goes away, and gets replaced w/ something like Notaries/Perspectives (large-scale polling of the correctness of a cert)
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> like the key signing web of trust ?
20:30 <@robbat2> option b) multiple things to patch up the current CA stuff: DNSSEC, HTTP cert pinning, DNS cert pinning
20:30 <@robbat2> not really
20:31 <@rich0> So, are we suggesting that we have any influence over any of this?  Or, are we stuck going with the flow until it either collapses or somebody manages to get everybody to support certs in DNSSEC records?
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, I'll read up on it.  No point in using meeting time to educate me
20:32 <@rich0> My sense is that despite all its warts the CA system is what currently exists, and so we have to go with it at least a little longer.
20:32 <@robbat2> i'm going to pursue what is available under option B for now
20:32 <@rich0> Now, I'm all for having the distro try to get new technologies adopted.
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> Is there any point in moving until the dust settles ?
20:33 <@robbat2> but I suggest that everybody installs perspectives/notaries in their browsers
20:33 <@robbat2> it looks likely that Chrome will have perspectives built in sometime in the very near future
20:33 <@quantumsummers> interesting
20:33 <@robbat2> there's just one design issue being worked out
20:34 <@robbat2> option a) is entirely client-side for fixes, so I can't force it
20:35 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, in terms of talking to CA's, i'll continue when they respond to me
20:35 <@robbat2> attacking the problem from as many angles as possible
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ok
20:35 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: would it be worthwhile to approach thawte?
20:36 <@robbat2> not really
20:37 <@robbat2> anyway, that's all on SSL from me
20:37 <@robbat2> i need to vanish for a sec for my wife, brb ~5-10
20:38 <@quantumsummers> alright.
20:38 <@quantumsummers> lets move to rich0's Tracker
20:38 <@rich0> Ok
20:38 <@rich0> So, the main page is actually fairly good at this point.  It reflects reality (I think), and the next due column should be considered a useful reference.
20:39 -!- keytoaster [~tobias@gentoo/developer/keytoaster] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:39 <@rich0> Maybe I'll re-sort it by the next-due date for at-a-glance reference.
20:39 <@rich0> The next real improvement would be adding in the individual activity pages so that they are useful as a reference - a 990 for dummies page, etc.
20:40 <@quantumsummers> rich0: for certain action items, I would love to see who has taken the responsibility for the task included somewhere.
20:40 <@rich0> Now, that doesn't have to mean how to do a 990 from scratch.  990 for dummies might be gather a,b,c and send to CPA.
20:40 <@rich0> quantumsummers, yes, the Who column at the front is a big gap - missed that.
20:40 <@rich0> Is that something we can quickly build consensus on here?
20:40 <@quantumsummers> probably not without Robin
20:41 <@quantumsummers> for the entirety
20:41 <@rich0> Ok, then I can send something out in email to get it moving.  Maybe I'll throw out a proposal and see what all say.
20:41 <@quantumsummers> sounds great
20:41 <@quantumsummers> thanks rich0
20:41 <@rich0> I did actually get a compliment from drobbins on the whole thing.  
20:41 <@dabbott> thanks rich0 
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> The who should be the office holder
20:42 <@rich0> Agreed
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> office title*
20:42 <@rich0> Actually, I'll probably just post the title
20:42 <@rich0> yes
20:42 <@rich0> Treasurer, secretary, president, etc
20:42 <@quantumsummers> as far as documenting the standard operating procedures (i.e. what to do for 990), that is really a great idea
20:42 <@rich0> yes - I can go ahead and create more skeleton pages like the two out there, but I'll need to rely on others to provide the details.
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> If we hire a CPA to make the submissions we don't need a HOWTO
20:43 <@quantumsummers> rich0: I can provide the details on much of that stuff.
20:43 <@rich0> Well, the howto could be just a list of docs we need to provide to the CPA, how much lead time they need, and so on.
20:43 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: need a howto to get the correct info to the COA
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> Yes - good one
20:43 <@quantumsummers> in case I am hit by th ebus
20:43 <@rich0> Basically if a meteor strike takes out all trustees this will help the next generation.
20:43 <@rich0> Assuming they have a working internet.
20:44 <@quantumsummers> lets hope this does not come to pass, but prepare for it anyway
20:44 <@rich0> Oh, and the other thing the howtos will state is what to publish where for openness.
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
20:44 <@rich0> So basically it lets anybody audit us, and that means we're less likely to miss something.
20:44 <@quantumsummers> *cough* excellent use of a wiki **
20:44 <@rich0> There we go - gentoo-wiki.  :)
20:44  * rich0 ducks
20:45 <@quantumsummers> rich0: anything further?
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> heh - it would be a start
20:45 <@rich0> No, I think that sums it up.  I'll see if I can focus next on the roles/responsibilities.
20:45 <@quantumsummers> ok, thanks rich0.
20:45 <@quantumsummers> Lets move on to bugs, shall we?
20:45 <@rich0> sure
20:45 <@dabbott> Nothing much new in the bugs department
20:46 <@quantumsummers> dabbott ok. I have let those silde under my radar I think.
20:47 <@quantumsummers> so, I should move on?
20:47 <@dabbott> yes we can go over them next month if needed
20:47 <@NeddySeagoon> please
20:47 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:47 <@quantumsummers> New Business
20:47 <@quantumsummers> Infra Purchase Request
20:47 <@dabbott> I think this next one is for darkside_ 
20:49 <@robbat2> back
20:49 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: the infra purchase requests
20:49 -!- ABCD [~quassel@gentoo/developer/abcd] has quit [Ping timeout: 260 seconds]
20:49 <@quantumsummers> did darkside_jump out of a plane or something? where is he? :)
20:49 <@robbat2> ok, there's been some independant development on those
20:50 <@quantumsummers> do tell
20:50 <@robbat2> this channel is open, so i'll suffice to say that $bigcorp has offered us $6k for hardware
20:50 <@robbat2> the best fit for that right now, is looking like buying the VM machines with it, minus the disks, and having the foundation buy the disks
20:50 <@robbat2> very similar to the VM proposal link, just without the disks
20:51 <@robbat2> from Dell
20:51 -!- ABCD [~quassel@gentoo/developer/abcd] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:51 <@dabbott> that will work
20:51 <@robbat2> for disks, looking at buying Barracuda XT's ourselves via newegg
20:51 <@NeddySeagoon> That works - is that a donation  ?
20:51 <@robbat2> as they are sub-$200 on Newegg, and Dell wants >$500/disk
20:52 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: that is excellent
20:52 <@robbat2> not cash, purchase on corporate card shipped straight to OSL
20:52 <@quantumsummers> thanks to $bigcorp
20:52 <@robbat2> we can't go over the $6k, so we need to get as close to it as possible to maximize our use of it
20:52 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds good.  Thanks to $bigcorp
20:52 <@quantumsummers> and thanks to $person_that_made_it_happen
20:53 <@robbat2> i'll need to work out the details for the sponsor page during the next week
20:53 <@robbat2> but that purchase will probably happen in the same timeframe
20:53 <@robbat2> for the disks, i'll make a new purchase request
20:53 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, so there will be a required for disks in the same timeframe ?
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> We can vote on that on the alias
20:54 <+armin76> robbat2: what about the thing the disks go to? i can't remember the name...
20:54 <@robbat2> yes
20:54 <@robbat2> Ganeti?
20:54 <@robbat2> drbd?
20:54 <@quantumsummers> a case?
20:54 <@quantumsummers> ;)
20:54 <+armin76> yeah, the case
20:55 <@robbat2> armin76, the r415's we're ordering are supposed to have the hotswap disk caddys in them
20:55 <@robbat2> so we just pull em and install the disks
20:55 <@quantumsummers> bing bang boom
20:55 <+armin76> okay
20:55 <@quantumsummers> alrighty
20:56 <@dabbott> what about a new Masterdistfiles Machine ?
20:56 <@robbat2> disk ideas are either 4x 3TB Barracuda XT, or (2x 3TB Barracuda, 2x 300GB 15K SAS)
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Do osl have some space waiting or do we have to swap out other hardware to make room ?
20:56 <@robbat2> either way, $1200-$2k on disks
20:56 <@robbat2> dabbott, that's why I was hoping darkside_ was here
20:57 <@quantumsummers> he was here earlier
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Put together the purchase request.  We can discuss this further if darkside_ shows up
20:57 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:57 <+armin76> i'd say there's space, power is another thing
20:57 <@quantumsummers> Lets move on then
20:57 <+armin76> but i don't think that has been discussed
20:58 <@robbat2> armin76, it's discussed before, we're good
20:58 < darkside_> pong
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> that was timely ...
20:58 <@quantumsummers> hey darkside_ you appeared
20:59  * quantumsummers is in an electrical storm at the moment. FYI
20:59 <@robbat2> darkside_, hw proposals for new masterdistfiles box, any details? (since $bigcorp is doing the VM machines)
20:59 < darkside_> i am getting frustrated at the endless bikeshedding when we talk about hw in #-infra
21:00 < darkside_> to the point that i have just ignored it
21:01 <@robbat2> after the VM, it's just masterdistfiles+pecker that are left for replacing, how can we trim the bikeshedding?
21:01 <@dabbott> no  bikeshedding here what do you need
21:01 <@rich0> Yup, from a foundation perspective we really just need a proposal and the word of infra that it makes sense.
21:02 < darkside_> we've spec'd out something and posted it to the infra alias, just need someone to order the hw. BDFL-style
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> darkside_, you are doing the work - you know what is needed  -  write it up, then its a done deal.
21:02 <@robbat2> i apologize for not being around more to BFDL infra into not bikeshedding
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> darkside_, post it to trustees@  with quotes if you have them
21:03 <@rich0> It isn't like we're trying to make it on the TOPS list or something - we need some servers that work...  :)
21:04 < darkside_> maybe i'll just work with robbat2 via email or so to get it done
21:04 <@robbat2> yeah, maybe best
21:04 < darkside_> eliminate the by-standing audience
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> darkside_, ok.  
21:05 <@rich0> Yup - lists are good for generating ideas.  Bad for generating consensus.
21:05 <@quantumsummers> main thrust, iirc, is that you were considering an acquisition in the range of $6K to $11K
21:05 <@quantumsummers> darkside_: is the above still correct?
21:06 < darkside_> will be less now that alec is handling the VM stuff
21:06 <@quantumsummers> Ok. 
21:06 <@quantumsummers> seems reasonable.
21:07 < darkside_> ok, that is all then. action for me: work with robbat2 personally
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> darkside_, When we have the shopping list, we can fund it.  That will end the bikeshedding
21:07 <@dabbott> robbat2, while we are at it what about a replacement for pecker
21:07 <@quantumsummers> I propose a 'Motion: Authorize darkside_ and robbat2 (working with me as payee) to specify and order server(s) not to exceed $8000.
21:07 <@dabbott> seconded
21:07 <@quantumsummers> this would exclude disks
21:08 <@robbat2> abstain
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Its a bit early to put a value on it
21:08 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: *not to exceed*
21:08 <@NeddySeagoon> Its still a bit early
21:08 <@robbat2> we'll put together a ballpark and send it to the trustees alias
21:08 <@quantumsummers> I rescind the motion
21:09 <@quantumsummers> just needs to get done.
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> We don't need  a meeting to vote
21:09 <@rich0> robbat2, agree with your approach.  I think it will get quick attention here.
21:09 <@dabbott> unseconded :)
21:09 <@rich0> Yup, we can approve on the alias.
21:09 <@quantumsummers> Very well, moving along :)
21:09 < darkside_> it makes things easier that alec stepped in
21:09 < darkside_> should go better now
21:09 <@quantumsummers> glad to hear it
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> We only need 3 Aye votes too
21:10 <@quantumsummers> Next Up: KDE Akademy 2012 Support
21:10 <@quantumsummers> tampakrap and differentreality are here to answer questions.
21:10 < differentreality> yep :) 
21:10 <+tampakrap> hello :)
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> It seems the support is in two parts 
21:11 <@quantumsummers> I have read the document and related email material.
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> a) endoresment
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> b) funding
21:11 <@quantumsummers> right
21:11 <@dabbott> correct
21:11 <+tampakrap> for now, only the first part is needed to discuss
21:11 <+tampakrap> funding will be raised again if we get accepted
21:11 <@robbat2> if we endorse it, and there are no other funders, are we on the hook for it?
21:12 <@robbat2> have other akademy's been break-even or better?
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I propose that the foundation endorse this attepmpt to host KDE Akademy 2012
21:12 <@quantumsummers> seconded
21:12 < differentreality> robbat2,  Not at all, funding is a separate issue, we definitely do not expect just one sponsor to cover the event :)
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, No.  Much of the funding comes from KDE .e.v.
21:13 <@robbat2> ok, then one last question: how much event-planning experience do either tampakrap / differentreality have?
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> I would expect to fund something later is the approach is successful
21:14 <@rich0> I certainly have no objections to endorsing the proposal.  No big issues with a modest sponsorship of some kind.  Gentoo has always had a vibrant KDE community and I'd say we're one of the better KDE distros out there.
21:15 <@rich0> Oh, and does upstream consider this the right way to go about things?  It certainly isn't our intent to meddle either.
21:15 <+tampakrap> robbat2: we both have participated and organized many small and big linux events, including fosscomm 2009 (biggest annual greek event) in my city, and fosscomm 2010 in differentreality's city
21:15 <+tampakrap> i can send you a list
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, tampakrap expanded on that in an email.  KDE .e.V provide support too
21:15 < differentreality> I have experience with many small / local events, mostly in my uni, as well as national event of FOSSCOMM 2010 which was held in Thessaloniki, Greece (this is where I'm from) and was a success (at least for greek foss community) with 500 people - I was main organizer/coordinator so I had to do a little bit of everything from arranging parallel presentations/workshops to dealing with the sponsorships and financial issues.  I am also co-
21:15 < differentreality> founder of the linux users group in my university as well as one of the two people that created IEEE student branch in my uni, which I currently actively coordinate too. 
21:15 <@robbat2> (i'm behind on my email due to electrical work at home yesterday)
21:16 <@robbat2> ok, that's reasonable for the scale of Akademy
21:16 <@robbat2> no further questions from me
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more Questions on endorsement ?
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Please vote
21:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
21:16 <@robbat2> Aye
21:16 <@quantumsummers> Aye
21:17 <@dabbott> yes
21:17 <@rich0> aye
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, ?
21:17 <@quantumsummers> Motion carried.
21:17 <+tampakrap> thank you guys, we really appreciate it
21:17 < differentreality> thanks :) 
21:17 <@quantumsummers> Good luck on the application
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap, differentreality You have our unamouns endorement - good luck.
21:17 <@dabbott> good luck tampakrap differentreality 
21:17 <@robbat2> tampakrap, minor comment, if you do win, please make sure there are vegetarian options for all meals
21:17 <@quantumsummers> +1
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap do you need something from the Foundation to support your application ?
21:18 <@robbat2> (coming from the perspective of some local friends that are KDE devs and go to Akademy, and have had food troubles a few times)
21:18 <+tampakrap> robbat2: that is actually one of the requirements :)
21:18 < differentreality> robbat2, we already have it in mind - it surely will happen 
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap do you need something from the Foundation to support your application ?
21:18 -!- idl0r [~idl0r@gentoo/developer/idl0r] has joined #gentoo-trustees
21:19 <+tampakrap> NeddySeagoon: sure, is a certificate possible?
21:19 <+tampakrap> a letter or something
21:19 <@NeddySeagoon> tampakrap, Lets discuss after the meeting
21:19 <@NeddySeagoon> A letter, yes
21:20 <+tampakrap> sure, i can discuss it with Matt afterwards
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, sorry - I'm userping your chair
21:20 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: no biggie, you can have it back anytime
21:21 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, please continue
21:21 <@quantumsummers> *Membership Applications*
21:21 <@dabbott> Francisco Blas Izquierdo Riera (klondike) late addition
21:21 <@quantumsummers> Senior Francisco Blas Izquierdo Riera is requesting membership to the foundation as a developer
21:21 <@dabbott> yes
21:22 <@NeddySeagoon> Aye
21:22 <@rich0> aye
21:22 <@quantumsummers> aye
21:22 <@robbat2> aye
21:22 <@quantumsummers> Congrats
21:22 <@quantumsummers> to Francisco Blas Izquierdo Riera (aka klondike)
21:23 <@quantumsummers> Lets do the cleanup
21:23 <@NeddySeagoon> 16th is good for me
21:23 <@quantumsummers> fine by me
21:23 <@dabbott> fine here also
21:23 <@quantumsummers> err wait a sec
21:23 <@quantumsummers> sorry
21:24 <@quantumsummers> I should be able to attend
21:24 <@robbat2> 16th is good for me, 23/30th are really bad
21:24 <@quantumsummers> however I have lots of family in town, as we are having a baby shower on Saturday
21:24 <@quantumsummers> I can make it though, at least for most
21:25 <@quantumsummers> Date of Next Meeting is Set - 16th Oct 2011 19:00 UTC
21:25 <@rich0> sounds good
21:25 <@NeddySeagoon> That would involve lots of drink here - go careful with your hangover
21:25 <@robbat2> +1
21:25 <@robbat2> (on the meeting, not the hangover)
21:25 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
21:26 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: we shall see
21:26 <@quantumsummers> Any Other Business??
21:26 <@NeddySeagoon> I have 1 item
21:26 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: you have the floor
21:27 <@NeddySeagoon> The approch from the individual at Oracle ..  There seems to be some enthusiasim to follow it up but it will need developer buy in.  Should I post the message to -core
21:28 <@NeddySeagoon> It we do get support from $bigcorp it will involve $work
21:29 <@rich0> I think posting to -core makes sense, but it seems like the council already has a fair bit of support from it.
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> but they are not going to do all the work
21:30 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post to -core
21:30 <@rich0> Maybe ask on -core who is willing to make some kind of general commitment if the proposal is accepted?
21:30 <@rich0> Ie a few hours per week.
21:30 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I, for one, would be willing to do a good amount of this $work as it is a general part of my day anyway.
21:31 <@rich0> Yup, I was surprised by the amount of enthusiasm, so I think we'd be able to hold up our end of things.
21:31 <@quantumsummers> I think so.
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> yep.  I don't want to end up leading just becase I'm point of contact just now
21:31 <@rich0> Still a bit of a long shot just the same.
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> its worth following up
21:31 <@rich0> Maybe solicit somebody to lead the effort then.
21:31 <@rich0> Having a leader goes a long way.
21:31 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, volunteered
21:32 <@dabbott> a good leader I must say
21:32 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post to -core and write to the guy with an update
21:33 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: CC or introduce me please.
21:33 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, sure
21:33 <@quantumsummers> Lets see what the real details are
21:33 <@quantumsummers> I am happy to get this started and make sure its not a dud
21:33 <@NeddySeagoon> That was my item
21:33 <@quantumsummers> damn lightning is scaring my youngest cat, LOL
21:34 <@quantumsummers> strike nearby...anyway
21:34 <@quantumsummers> thanks NeddySeagoon
21:34 <@quantumsummers> anyone else for AOB?
21:34 <@robbat2> minor note i'll be offline for a chunk of the week
21:34 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: everything alright?
21:35 <@robbat2> furnace failed entirely, and the propety manager is having a guy replace it
21:35 <@quantumsummers> oh that is good fun'
21:35 <@robbat2> but to do so needs some actual construction work to comply w/ newer building codes
21:35 <@robbat2> which happens to be in the ceiling RIGHT above my desk
21:35 <@quantumsummers> even better. 
21:35 <@quantumsummers> take a vacation!
21:35 <@quantumsummers> while you have a chance
21:35 <@robbat2> lol, so i'm packing up my desktop etc
21:36 <@quantumsummers> ok. well good luck sir
21:36 <@quantumsummers> Anyone/thing else?
21:37 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log and write the email to Klondike etc.  I'll work up a form of words with tampakrap too
21:37 <@quantumsummers> thanks thanks
21:37 <@dabbott> I can do the minutes  and motions as it is all in the same place pretty much
21:37 <@quantumsummers> dabbott will you update the motions?
21:37 <@quantumsummers> ah, many thanks
21:37 <@quantumsummers> Thank you NeddySeagoon and dabbott.
21:37 <@quantumsummers> Thusly, it is Open Floor
21:38 <@quantumsummers> Anyone wishing to speak should do so now or hold you peace until the next meeting (or send official business via email).
21:39  * NeddySeagoon drops a pin
21:39 <@quantumsummers> :) going once, twice, three
21:39 <@quantumsummers> times
21:39 <@quantumsummers> a lady
21:39  * quantumsummers bangs the gavel. Meeting is closed.
