17:56  * NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to open the 20 March 2011 Trustee Meeting ... and notes its the last meeting before the new Trustees take their seats.
17:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call
17:56 <@dabbott> here
17:57 <@quantumsummers> present
17:57 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ??
17:57 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, ... your last meeting
17:58 <@NeddySeagoon> OK ... we have a quorum, so we may as well start
17:58 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm logging
17:58 <@NeddySeagoon> That gets un yo Agenda Item 3 Old Business
17:58 <@NeddySeagoon> 2011 Trustee Election - Status Report
17:59 <@dabbott> Voting is going on now afaik
17:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Voting is open.   I posted jmbsvicettos notice to -foundation-annouce, so all members should have seen it.
18:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Did anyone moderate it ?
18:00 <@quantumsummers> I think robbat2 did
18:00 <@quantumsummers> it did go out
18:00 <@NeddySeagoon> I got it as I sent it ...  thanks quantumsummers 
18:01 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers  SFLC Monthly Update you have the floor
18:02 <@quantumsummers> ok thanks
18:02 <@quantumsummers> at this point we have not received sufficient support from the sflc regarding a number of items
18:03 <@NeddySeagoon> How can we help SFLC to help us ?
18:03 <@quantumsummers> of that I am not certain
18:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Is it worth asking ?
18:04 <@quantumsummers> of course.
18:04 <@NeddySeagoon> I assume you mean that there is no movement since last month ?
18:04 <@quantumsummers> communication has been infrequent
18:05 <@quantumsummers> little response to my emails
18:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we ask them for forecast dates ... so we know what to expect ?
18:06 <@dabbott> We need a backup system, maybe some users could be of legal assistance 
18:06 <@NeddySeagoon> We did discuss a donation too
18:06 <@quantumsummers> yes, we can and I have requested that. I will email again with cc:trustees@ to that effect
18:06 <@quantumsummers> we should vote on our proposal
18:06 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, Thats worth a follow up ... or even a front page advert
18:07 <@quantumsummers> to the sflc regarding a donation
18:07 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do you have a sum in mind ?
18:07 <@quantumsummers> not formally
18:07 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: yes that may help our cause they may be hurting
18:08 <@NeddySeagoon> nothing to propose for a montion now ?
18:08 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, its unlikely we can bankroll a lawyer to do the things we have outstanding
18:09 <@quantumsummers> the fact is we need some form of longer term contract that states explicit work requests agreed on by the board in consulation
18:09 <@NeddySeagoon> how does that help ?
18:10 <@quantumsummers> this is to say, we need more than only an attorney
18:10 <@NeddySeagoon> You imply that this would be funded work
18:11 <@quantumsummers> is not a doantion to sflc the funding of work?
18:11 <@quantumsummers> in some sense
18:12 <@quantumsummers> if we have an idea of how much time (for attorney, book keeping, etc) we are looking at to complete the irs process 
18:12 <@quantumsummers> it would be easier to make a bid
18:13 <@NeddySeagoon> No.  The two are (legally) connected.  It may make it easier for them to operate but the donation would not be explicity tied to expiditing Gentoo work.  It would be a donation - no strings
18:13 <@NeddySeagoon> The two are not (legally) connected*
18:14 <@NeddySeagoon> They could use our donation any waay they want to
18:15 <@quantumsummers> right, as they are pro bono for gentoo
18:15 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: do they tell you they don't have the time / people or they just don't respond
18:15 <@quantumsummers> dabbott, the latter
18:15 <@NeddySeagoon> thats why I was saying would could not afford to bankroll a lawyer ...
18:16 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do they answer the phone ?
18:16 <@quantumsummers> communication with them has been difficult, and I agree with NeddySeagoon that we should not need to bankroll a lawyer
18:16 <@robbat2> crap, timezone change bit me
18:17 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I usually get voicemail, but I do not attempt calls at high frequency
18:17 <@quantumsummers> last phone conversation was early Jan
18:17 <@quantumsummers> hello robbat2
18:17 <@dabbott> hi robbat2 
18:17 <@NeddySeagoon> SFLC depends on donations, just as we do.  I don't have a problem making a donation ... wed do use their services.  I don't see us making a big enough donation to make a huge difference in response time.
18:18 <@NeddySeagoon> welcome robbat2 
18:18 <@dabbott> I say give them a donation as a show of good faith
18:19 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, I'm inclined to agree.
18:19 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I am torn about this a bit. at a certain point, we just need to get this work completed
18:19 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, how about your propose a montion dor a donation at the AGM in April ?
18:20 <@quantumsummers> I accept that.
18:20 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Can we do the work without the SFLC ?
18:20 <@quantumsummers> of course.
18:21 <+antarus> Do we know how much the work costs; can't we just get a consultation?
18:21 <@NeddySeagoon> You say 'of course' but I was under the impression that we were asking for legal opionions on some things and help with the 501c3 applicatiion ?
18:21 <@quantumsummers> I will make a proposal to this effect. I will seek to continue the relationship with sflc
18:22 <@quantumsummers> the bulk of this work should be done by a cpa
18:22 <@NeddySeagoon> Yes - we cannot afford to pay for legal all the time.
18:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, what about the volunteers we had ?
18:22 <+antarus> How much do you expect to spend on 501c3?
18:23 <@dabbott> It would be nice to find a cpa that is also a gentoo user that we can get a sliding scale / discount
18:24 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, is it worth approaching your CPA for a quote for the work ?
18:24 <@quantumsummers> antarus: total cost is conservatively $5k for this with some variation on location
18:25 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, for 5k I feel I would like to get it done and over with ... we are already overdue
18:25 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I think we need a professional service, with contracts that say you will do these things by these dates.
18:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, we will never get that pro-bono
18:26 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I fully concur
18:26 <@quantumsummers> sflc is great, but we need more support than they can offer
18:26 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: can we get 3 bids to do the work ?
18:27 <@quantumsummers> its likely that we could get numerous bids, yes
18:27 <@dabbott> is that something you could put together
18:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, then lets take some of the work away from them and fund a CPA to do it with an agreed deadline
18:27 <@NeddySeagoon> ie. a contract
18:27 <@robbat2> aye from me too
18:28 <@quantumsummers> antarus: we should have some introduction to some west coast talent?
18:28 <+antarus> quantumsummers: not following you
18:28 <+antarus> you want me to recommend a cpa?
18:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Is west coast talent special ?
18:28 <@quantumsummers> robbat2 anyone come to mind?
18:29 <@NeddySeagoon> antarus, sure
18:29 <@quantumsummers> antarus: do you know anyone familiar with gentoo?
18:29 <@dabbott> antarus: yes please
18:29 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, i'm up in Canada, no suitable suggestions
18:29 <+antarus> the only CPA I know is in texas
18:29 <+antarus> and I wouldn't recommend him ;p
18:29 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: who does osuosl work with?
18:29 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
18:29 <@quantumsummers> :)
18:29 <+antarus> I imagine the osuosl has university lawyers and cpas
18:30 <+antarus> That is how this org I know at Michigan State U. worked
18:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Let me sum up so far ...
18:32 <@NeddySeagoon> We will take some of our work away from SFLC and contract with one or more CPAs to complete these work items for an agreed fixed price and an agreed date
18:32 <@NeddySeagoon> We could even use it as a way to audition CPAs
18:33 <@quantumsummers> perhaps we should publish a formal request for quote
18:33 <@NeddySeagoon> I would like to suggest that SFLC be given the opportunity to bid for the work too
18:34 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yes - every CPA needs to get the same form of words.  If we put all the work items in one document, we need to make it clear we may 'cherry pick' from responses
18:34 <@dabbott> quantumsummers: what is the first thing you would like see completed
18:34 <+antarus> is there a list of work documented somewhere?
18:36 <@NeddySeagoon> antarus, we know what we have fed into SFLC
18:36 <@quantumsummers> initial discovery, financial discovery, form assembly and narrative writing (we have a lot of writing already), full internal documentation and budget.
18:37 <@quantumsummers> then, 1023 document submission
18:37 <@quantumsummers> then we wait 2-6 months
18:37 <@NeddySeagoon> That sounds like it can't be broken up
18:38 <@quantumsummers> we then either: receive temp letter OR receive rejection. if rejected we can appeal in court
18:38 <@quantumsummers> if we are granted temp status we will have to provide whatever they want within 30 day so request
18:38 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, isn't SFLC handling an appeal just now ?
18:38 <@quantumsummers> at that point its cool breeze
18:38 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes, that is correct
18:39 <@NeddySeagoon> that may want a lot of their resource
18:39 <@quantumsummers> I think we will want at least an 18 month contract with the firm that wins the bid
18:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets take the 501c3 away from SFLC
18:41 <@dabbott> Put it out for bids so we can find someone more accountable 
18:41 <@NeddySeagoon> My problem with a term contract is we don't know what we want during the term ... there is a base load, which we can predict, and all the pop ups.  Or will the pop ups go away soon? 
18:42 <@robbat2> for a CPA, how much pop up is there actually?
18:42 <@robbat2> legal has pop-up work yes, but not CPA stuff from what I can see
18:43 <@quantumsummers> hard to predict pop ups
18:43 <@robbat2> there's the 501c3, our tax return presumably, and quarterly financial reports (which we're nearly a year behind on)
18:43 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, maybe not a lot ... but I don't understand the split as it all goes to SFLC at the moment
18:44 <+antarus> is there a difference in pop-up work for a 501c3 vs what we have now?
18:44 <+antarus> I assume we have some idea of our previous pop-up load
18:44 <@robbat2> i can't think of any CPA-specific pop-up load previously
18:44 <@quantumsummers> yes, it was mostly licensing or legal policy documents that popped up
18:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets let it ride until we have a new Treasurer in place ... I'm aware that quantumsummers is holding two offices and its too much.  Hopefully we can appoint a new Treasuer in April
18:46 <@NeddySeagoon> otherwise quantumsummers will be the point of contact and it will be harder to get the new guy to take over the work
18:46 <@dabbott> I agree quantumsummers needs to be able to devote his time to this issue and not be spread out
18:47 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ?
18:48 <@quantumsummers> I appreciate this, and will put together the necessary bits to get this settled finally.
18:48 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you need a Treasuer exit plan too.  Thats easier when you are not in the middle of something
18:49 <@NeddySeagoon> Summary ...
18:49 <@NeddySeagoon> Donation to SFLC
18:50 <@NeddySeagoon> Funding a CPA to complete our 501c3 application and routine CPA work for some period afterward
18:50 <@NeddySeagoon> Is that where we have got to ?
18:50 <@quantumsummers> yes
18:51 <@quantumsummers> where funding this endeavor requires a rfq to be written
18:52 <@quantumsummers> proposal to be presented at the april meeting
18:52 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I appreciate you can take this forward yourself but you might find you become Treasurer and we get a new Secretary because its easier to get out of that role.  Think about how involved you get short term
18:53 <@quantumsummers> we need a committee for this
18:53 <@quantumsummers> or better, a team
18:53 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, agreed - there is no harm in doing the proposal ... just don't get bolted into the role unless you want to keep it
18:54 <@NeddySeagoon> until the 501c3 is done and dusted anyway
18:54 <@robbat2> i thought that was what the financials/treasurer request for help was supposed to be previously, has any success come from that?
18:55 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, we have 5 responses but we have been slow following up
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more on SFLC ?
18:57 <@quantumsummers> not at this time
18:58 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, We should stop SFLC working on our 501c3 application ... it will be wasted work ... of course, we can pay them to complete it
18:59 <@quantumsummers> I do not think they are working on it presently to be plain
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Unless there are any Urgent bugs can we skip Agenda Item 4 Bugs.  We are an hour in already
18:59 <@dabbott> fine by me
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I agree - but its only polite to stop them wasting resource
19:00 <@quantumsummers> ok. I will send them a note.
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business
19:00 <@dabbott> thanks quantumsummers 
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Zyxware Technologies  Request to be added as an official CD/DVD vendor
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Those in favour please say Aye
19:00  * NeddySeagoon Aye 
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> its an 'at cost' service
19:01 <@dabbott> OK
19:01 <@quantumsummers> looks fine to me, yes
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm not sure they will get many takers for CDs but the liveDVD may do well.
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ?
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats 3 in favour - carried
19:03 <@dabbott> I will update vendor page
19:03 <@quantumsummers> dabbott thanks
19:03 <@dabbott> I can send them an email also same time
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> Link exchange (www.webhostingsearch.com) ... we voted on the list to refuse this
19:03 <@robbat2> aye
19:03 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, thanks
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> This is just the public record ove the vote
19:04 <@quantumsummers> right
19:04 <@dabbott> Link exchange no
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Documentation licensing violation - I've been slacking.  I need to follow this up with an email, as I offerd
19:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 Membership Applications
19:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Gentoo Developers . Kevin McCarthy  ... All in favour
19:05 <@dabbott> yes Kevin McCarthy signals
19:06 <@quantumsummers> yes
19:06  * NeddySeagoon Aye
19:06 <@robbat2> aye
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Community Members  Fernando V Orocu (likewhoa)
19:06 <@robbat2> aye
19:06  * NeddySeagoon Aye
19:06 <@dabbott> yes
19:06 <@quantumsummers> no .. I mean hell yeah! :D
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried
19:06 <@quantumsummers> likewhoa has done a trmendous job
19:07 <@quantumsummers> kudos to he and his team
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> likewhoa++
19:07 <@dabbott> my hero
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 17th Apr 2011 19:00 UTC
19:07 <@dabbott> OK here
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats our AGM. We need officers reports.  President, Treasuer and Secretary
19:08 <@robbat2> aye from me
19:08 <@robbat2> (on meeting date)
19:08 <@dabbott> anything I can help with quantumsummers ^^^
19:08 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll do the next 12 months Meeting calaner too
19:08 <@quantumsummers> dabbott Yes! :)
19:08 <@quantumsummers> 4/17 is fine by me
19:08 <@dabbott> delegate :)
19:09 <@quantumsummers> tax day is 4/15, I may be drunk ;)
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business ...
19:09 <@robbat2> i've got one bit that's best handled by email, just routine to get nightmorph a refund for the DVD spindle he bought for SCALE9x that we used to burn LiveDVDs
19:09 <@robbat2> i'll file it as a bug w/ the recipeit
19:09 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: cool
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, fine
19:10 <@dabbott> ok
19:10 <@quantumsummers> hey robbat2, do you think we could discuss running a small django app on infra?
19:10 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, yup, post-meeting
19:11 <@robbat2> no other AOB from me
19:11 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: thanks
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> I want to mention calculate linux.  I had a /query with one of their devs and pointed out the issues with nvidia-drivers and flash.  We may get an email from them
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> They are a Russian Gentoo Offshoot
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Responsibilities ...
19:12 <@dabbott> I will update the motions page and prepare next months agenda
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post the log, write the welcome emails and write to the site hosting our Gentoo IPv6 Router Guide
19:13 <@dabbott> only one item on the agenda correct?
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, election of a Treasurer ... Meetings calendar
19:14 <@quantumsummers> agm?
19:14 <@dabbott> plus  our AGM. We need officers reports.  President, Treasuer and Secretary
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Everyone ok with 3rd Sunday at 19:00 UTC still ?
19:14 <@robbat2> yup
19:14 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: sure
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Annual General Meeting - its the only meeting we are legally required to hold
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ...
19:16 <@robbat2> two notifications re infra for open floor, i want on the log due to budget implications
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, contine ...
19:17 <@robbat2> 1. the test RAM replacement in the Atom went great, the stability massively improved. we're seeing how many of the other atom servers now need the HCL-listed RAM for better stability
19:17 <@quantumsummers> that is easily within th einfra budget
19:17 <@robbat2> 2. in 3-6 months, infra intends to resume discussions on new large hardware for OSL. we discussed this last year, but it petered out
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, why the wait ?
19:18 <@robbat2> cleaning up power usage and rack space prior to then
19:18 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: what wattage will be available
19:18 <@quantumsummers> ?
19:18 <@robbat2> somewhere between 1.5 and 5A
19:19 <@quantumsummers> good current
19:19 <@quantumsummers> :)
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, this ties in with the email to arch leads about their wish lists ?
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, @ 110v or 220?
19:19 <@quantumsummers> 110
19:19 <@robbat2> this would be replacements for dev.g.o (woodpecker) and masterdistfiles.g.o (osprey)
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> :(
19:20 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: have you looked at the supermicro quadnode 2U?
19:20 <@robbat2> i'm trying to pursue some hardware sponsors/discounts before we go further anyway
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, sounds good
19:21 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, these need to be singular beefy boxes mainly
19:21 <@quantumsummers> oh, many disks
19:22 <@robbat2> that's all
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more for open floor ?
19:22  * NeddySeagoon bangs the closing gavel
