Aug 21 15:04:44 <quantumsummers>	1> Roll Call
Aug 21 15:04:49 *	quantumsummers is present
Aug 21 15:04:51 <dabbott>	here
Aug 21 15:05:00 <rich0>	here
Aug 21 15:05:20 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: you are here
Aug 21 15:05:42 <quantumsummers>	2> who is logging and going to publish?
Aug 21 15:05:45 <robbat2>	here
Aug 21 15:05:50 <quantumsummers>	:)
Aug 21 15:06:00 <quantumsummers>	2> who is logging and going to publish?
Aug 21 15:06:06 <dabbott>	i can
Aug 21 15:06:09 <quantumsummers>	thanks
Aug 21 15:06:20 <quantumsummers>	3> Treasurer's report
Aug 21 15:06:53 <quantumsummers>	I have submitted this report with a minor mis-calculation for review
Aug 21 15:07:24 <quantumsummers>	Further, I will make all data available in a few formats for archival and informational purposes
Aug 21 15:07:39 <quantumsummers>	what I have is the following: all paypal data for all time in csv and ods
Aug 21 15:07:57 <quantumsummers>	all capital one statements in pdf and ods
Aug 21 15:08:05 <quantumsummers>	all ing statements in pdf and ods
Aug 21 15:08:12 <quantumsummers>	that covers all our accounts
Aug 21 15:08:21 <robbat2>	+1
Aug 21 15:08:50 <dabbott>	can you post a report with links like http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/2010-treasurer-report.xml
Aug 21 15:09:16 <dabbott>	we can add it to http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/
Aug 21 15:09:32 <quantumsummers>	dabbott I can do that. I wondered about the format 
Aug 21 15:09:53 <quantumsummers>	what was done previously is more of a narrative
Aug 21 15:10:03 <quantumsummers>	I can write the report in narrative form I suppose
Aug 21 15:10:11 <quantumsummers>	as well as keeping the data tabular
Aug 21 15:10:31 <rich0>	Honestly, I'd probably just write an intro or whatever.  The data speaks for itself.  No sense burdening ourselves with too much boilerplate.
Aug 21 15:10:33 <dabbott>	just so we can find the info, main think is links to the pdf etc in one place
Aug 21 15:10:57 <quantumsummers>	rich0: makes sense, something of an executive summary
Aug 21 15:11:14 <quantumsummers>	dabbott I will guildexml-ify the info in the pdf
Aug 21 15:11:31 <quantumsummers>	that was just for ease of access for you guys to review
Aug 21 15:11:40 <quantumsummers>	that I emailed in that format
Aug 21 15:12:37 <quantumsummers>	there is a known error somewhere in there. I have not had much luck in tracking it down. Its small by comparison, so I am not terribly troubled by it
Aug 21 15:14:21 <robbat2>	FYI all, i'm intending on producing a copy of the data into the Ledger format to reconcile it and give it my own set of eyes
Aug 21 15:14:32 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: thanks
Aug 21 15:14:36 <robbat2>	from the original statements + paypal data
Aug 21 15:14:49 <dabbott>	we will need a motion to accept the report but need to link to it so we can do that next month 
Aug 21 15:14:54 <quantumsummers>	I have a python script that may help the paypal conversion to ofx
Aug 21 15:15:46 <quantumsummers>	I propose a motion to provisionally accept the report as it stands with the addition of a summary and correction of the minor error as work in progress
Aug 21 15:15:56 <robbat2>	seconded
Aug 21 15:15:59 <quantumsummers>	and xml-ification
Aug 21 15:16:08 <quantumsummers>	Please vote, gentlemen
Aug 21 15:16:13 <robbat2>	aye
Aug 21 15:16:17 <quantumsummers>	aye
Aug 21 15:16:27 <rich0>	aye
Aug 21 15:16:28 <dabbott>	ok
Aug 21 15:16:39 <quantumsummers>	Motion has passed. Let it be so.
Aug 21 15:17:00 <quantumsummers>	3> Special Motion to move the AGM from April to August
Aug 21 15:17:37 <quantumsummers>	keeping the same 3rd Sunday of the month 
Aug 21 15:17:40 <robbat2>	to clarify, this means the next AGM will be august 2012, or is it this present august
Aug 21 15:17:53 <quantumsummers>	Next
Aug 21 15:17:58 <quantumsummers>	we already had our AGM this year
Aug 21 15:18:23 <quantumsummers>	this meeting is an extraordinary general meeting, in addition to the previous AGM 
Aug 21 15:18:36 <dabbott>	the by-lays state not more than 13 months Why not have the AGM today and then again next Aug to satisfy Section 3.2. in the by-laws. http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/BylawsAdopted.xml#doc_chap3
Aug 21 15:18:58 <quantumsummers>	Yes, that is what we are doing with the EGM
Aug 21 15:19:01 <rich0>	Is there any issue of meeting notice?  Do we have to announce it?
Aug 21 15:19:25 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, great :)
Aug 21 15:19:35 <quantumsummers>	rich0: we already did, I belive
Aug 21 15:19:42 <quantumsummers>	we announce every meeting
Aug 21 15:19:45 <robbat2>	right, i see it now. since the EGM is today, and it's only 12 months to next August, that covers the bylaws
Aug 21 15:19:48 <rich0>	Yeah, I was trying to remember if I had seen something.  It is in IRC for sure.
Aug 21 15:20:19 <robbat2>	I second the motion
Aug 21 15:20:19 <quantumsummers>	rich0: it would be fine to also post to ML (foundation-announce)
Aug 21 15:20:26 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: thanks
Aug 21 15:20:33 <quantumsummers>	Please vote now:
Aug 21 15:20:40 <robbat2>	aye
Aug 21 15:20:41 <rich0>	aye
Aug 21 15:20:42 <quantumsummers>	aye
Aug 21 15:20:47 <dabbott>	yes
Aug 21 15:20:56 <quantumsummers>	Motion passed, Let it be so.
Aug 21 15:21:11 <quantumsummers>	Therefore, the next AGM will be held in August 2012
Aug 21 15:21:33 <quantumsummers>	the exact date to be decided and announced
Aug 21 15:21:38 <quantumsummers>	at a later date
Aug 21 15:21:58 <quantumsummers>	4.1> Date of Next Meeting - 18th Sep 2011 19:00 UTC
Aug 21 15:22:02 <quantumsummers>	wfm
Aug 21 15:22:19 <quantumsummers>	fellows, will that date and time work for everyone?
Aug 21 15:22:31 <dabbott>	fine here
Aug 21 15:22:31 <rich0>	fine by me
Aug 21 15:22:37 <robbat2>	fine by me
Aug 21 15:22:37 <quantumsummers>	robbat2?
Aug 21 15:22:40 <quantumsummers>	ok.
Aug 21 15:22:55 <quantumsummers>	the date of our next meeting is set: 18th Sep 2011 19:00 UTC
Aug 21 15:23:19 <quantumsummers>	Lets take care of 4.3 ahead of 4.2
Aug 21 15:23:48 <quantumsummers>	Responsibilities: are they covered? Logs and Motions?-> dabbott?
Aug 21 15:23:57 <quantumsummers>	I will post the report
Aug 21 15:23:58 <dabbott>	yep I got it
Aug 21 15:24:01 <quantumsummers>	no emails to send
Aug 21 15:24:16 <quantumsummers>	Excellent, thanks dabbott
Aug 21 15:24:16 <robbat2>	2 motions so far to for the motions page
Aug 21 15:24:22 <quantumsummers>	yes
Aug 21 15:24:42 <dabbott>	robbat2, noted :)
Aug 21 15:24:42 <quantumsummers>	4.4 Any Other Business:
Aug 21 15:24:46 <robbat2>	(fyi, i just noticed we have 'any other business' twice on the agenda)
Aug 21 15:24:54 <quantumsummers>	as did I :)
Aug 21 15:24:57 <robbat2>	yes, we have AoB
Aug 21 15:24:57 <quantumsummers>	I have one item
Aug 21 15:25:00 <rich0>	Just one item for me
Aug 21 15:25:12 <quantumsummers>	lets hear it
Aug 21 15:25:24 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: you first (fifo)
Aug 21 15:25:36 <robbat2>	i suspect we're all on the same item actually
Aug 21 15:25:40 <robbat2>	the new turkey vendor email
Aug 21 15:26:37 <robbat2>	The vendor in question, Penguenci.com Destek, is a non-profit turkish CD/DVD vendor
Aug 21 15:26:43 <robbat2>	http://www.penguenci.com/dukkan/index.php?route=product/manufacturer&manufacturer_id=39
Aug 21 15:27:14 <quantumsummers>	I do not see any issues.
Aug 21 15:27:29 <rich0>	If I'm reading that site the CDs are sold for about $3, which certainly seems to be close to cost (plus handling/etc).
Aug 21 15:27:39 <robbat2>	their pricing is very cheap, 6 Turkish Lira is ~3.30USD, yes
Aug 21 15:27:53 <quantumsummers>	I cannot read the site at all really
Aug 21 15:28:07 <robbat2>	and they are up to date, 11.2 is on there already
Aug 21 15:28:23 <rich0>	Seems fine to me.
Aug 21 15:28:33 <quantumsummers>	Motion: Approve Penguenci.com Destek as official vendor.
Aug 21 15:28:37 <robbat2>	seconded
Aug 21 15:28:37 <rich0>	seconded
Aug 21 15:28:41 <rich0>	aye
Aug 21 15:28:43 <quantumsummers>	Please vote
Aug 21 15:28:43 <robbat2>	aye
Aug 21 15:28:47 <quantumsummers>	aye
Aug 21 15:28:47 <dabbott>	yes
Aug 21 15:29:01 <quantumsummers>	Motion passed.
Aug 21 15:29:15 <quantumsummers>	rich0: what is your item, same one?
Aug 21 15:29:23 <robbat2>	i'll add the vendor to the relevant page
Aug 21 15:29:23 <rich0>	Nope
Aug 21 15:29:29 <rich0>	Just a quickie
Aug 21 15:29:29 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: thanks
Aug 21 15:29:31 <dabbott>	robbat2, ok
Aug 21 15:29:34 <rich0>	Just a quick note to all to take a look at: http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/secretary/activities/activity_tracker.xml
Aug 21 15:29:35 <rich0>	Feel free to contribute or to create new activity pages for anything you have close knowledge of.  Consider everything there draft for now so apologies if I get roles/responsibilities wrong/etc.
Aug 21 15:30:24 <rich0>	And feel free to send me notes to clean up and add.
Aug 21 15:30:27 <rich0>	That's all.
Aug 21 15:30:31 <quantumsummers>	rich0: the last Annual Report - New Mexico filing was 2010/10
Aug 21 15:30:55 <rich0>	Excellent, thanks.
Aug 21 15:31:14 <rich0>	Oh, did we file in Missouri yet?
Aug 21 15:31:26 <rich0>	If so we have an annual report coming due.
Aug 21 15:31:33 <quantumsummers>	not yet, that is pending legal review of our by laws
Aug 21 15:31:41 <quantumsummers>	yes, I have the report to submit already
Aug 21 15:31:46 <quantumsummers>	its complete
Aug 21 15:31:47 <rich0>	Ok, I'd hold off until September in any case.
Aug 21 15:32:02 <quantumsummers>	ok. anything else rich0?
Aug 21 15:32:08 <rich0>	nope, that's all for me.
Aug 21 15:32:16 <quantumsummers>	oh, change the annual meeting on there
Aug 21 15:32:18 <quantumsummers>	:)
Aug 21 15:32:24 <quantumsummers>	I have one item.
Aug 21 15:33:27 <quantumsummers>	I would like to submit an application for partnership with Calxeda, who is producing some very interesting ARM tech for servers. I have another dev, Dr. Anthony Basile, on board as PI.
Aug 21 15:34:01 <quantumsummers>	info is here http://calxeda.com/partners.php
Aug 21 15:34:28 <quantumsummers>	canonical is on board as a distro, I would like Gentoo to be there too
Aug 21 15:34:40 <robbat2>	any costs to us?
Aug 21 15:34:46 <quantumsummers>	main tech is ~120 4-core nodes in a 2U case
Aug 21 15:34:58 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: not that I am aware of. the HW is free
Aug 21 15:35:05 <robbat2>	that sounds similar to a crowd that tried MIPS stuff
Aug 21 15:35:15 <robbat2>	ok, i have no objections then
Aug 21 15:35:24 <quantumsummers>	yes, they ran gentoo in a mips hpc cluster
Aug 21 15:35:34 <quantumsummers>	up in boston/cambridge
Aug 21 15:35:50 <robbat2>	* SiCortex
Aug 21 15:35:55 <quantumsummers>	yes
Aug 21 15:36:00 <rich0>	Do we have support from the ARM arch team, or others as needed?
Aug 21 15:36:25 <quantumsummers>	have not contacted anyone, blueness has the requisite experience
Aug 21 15:36:30 <rich0>	If Anthony is taking the lead from the dev side that is probably sufficient / etc.
Aug 21 15:36:31 <quantumsummers>	and interest
Aug 21 15:36:41 <rich0>	Yup, just wanted to make sure that it had backing.
Aug 21 15:36:52 <robbat2>	the arm folk will be interested in the build abilities of that hardware
Aug 21 15:36:53 <quantumsummers>	he and I will team up on this, at minimum. others are welcome
Aug 21 15:37:03 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: I bet you are right
Aug 21 15:37:15 <quantumsummers>	there are 2 variants of partnership
Aug 21 15:37:15 <robbat2>	as that beats the Kirkwood board I run for them presently
Aug 21 15:37:18 <rich0>	So, what exactly is Gentoo doing (just curious - seems great).
Aug 21 15:37:26 <quantumsummers>	one is you get your own system, the other is remote access
Aug 21 15:38:11 <quantumsummers>	rich0: blueness and I are interested in porting hardened, for one. Also looking into message passing (one of my interests) via rabbitmq.
Aug 21 15:38:26 <quantumsummers>	we are working up the proposal currently
Aug 21 15:38:48 <quantumsummers>	wanted to make sure it was cool with the board before putting in a ton of effort
Aug 21 15:38:59 <robbat2>	+1 from me
Aug 21 15:39:02 <dabbott>	fine by me, have fun
Aug 21 15:39:17 <rich0>	Sounds good to me - Gentoo is perfect if you ask me for these kinds of trailblazing applications.
Aug 21 15:39:33 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: as another potential there is ZT systems, they have a nice 8 node 2-core 1U system but its expensive
Aug 21 15:39:42 <quantumsummers>	rich0: I agree completely
Aug 21 15:40:06 <quantumsummers>	blueness wants to contact them as well
Aug 21 15:40:43 <quantumsummers>	their system  is $20K, so we would have to get a massive discount and financial assistance from somewhere for that to be possible
Aug 21 15:40:59 <quantumsummers>	in any case, this is just a start. thanks for the support
Aug 21 15:41:07 <rich0>	So, what is the 5 words or less description of Gentoo for the logo?  :)
Aug 21 15:41:35 <rich0>	(no need to settle that now)
Aug 21 15:41:45 <quantumsummers>	not sure
Aug 21 15:41:52 <rich0>	Gentoo - We Supply the Clues
Aug 21 15:41:56 <quantumsummers>	heh
Aug 21 15:42:01 <robbat2>	lol
Aug 21 15:42:39 <quantumsummers>	ok, any other items for AOB?
Aug 21 15:43:51 <dabbott>	none here
Aug 21 15:44:12 <quantumsummers>	goin once
Aug 21 15:44:15 <quantumsummers>	twice
Aug 21 15:44:20 <quantumsummers>	three times a lady
Aug 21 15:44:28 <quantumsummers>	4.5 Open floor
Aug 21 15:44:50 <quantumsummers>	anyone interested in voicing their ideas and opinions, please speak now
Aug 21 15:45:13 <quantumsummers>	I do hope that Roy is ok. Not like him to miss a meeting.
Aug 21 15:45:16 *	rich0 listens eagerly to the crickets...
Aug 21 15:45:37 <quantumsummers>	well then... going once
Aug 21 15:45:58 <quantumsummers>	going twice for open floor - have your voice heard here!
Aug 21 15:46:04 <quantumsummers>	...
Aug 21 15:46:07 <quantumsummers>	...
Aug 21 15:46:07 <robbat2>	none for me
Aug 21 15:46:21 <quantumsummers>	thrice gone
Aug 21 15:46:37 <quantumsummers>	and the floor is closed.
