18:42  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the last trustee meeting before the 2011 elections
18:42 -!- quantumsummers|a is now known as quantumsummers
18:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call - I'm logging
18:42 <@quantumsummers> present
18:42 < tsunam> I'm ere
18:42 < tsunam> here even
18:42 <@robbat2> present
18:42 <@dabbott> here
18:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 2 Old Business
18:43 <@NeddySeagoon> 2011 Trustee Election  Status Report
18:44 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, and robbat2 retire by rotation.  Nominations will be help in Feb, exact dates to be determined by the elections project, voting will be in March
18:44 <@NeddySeagoon> Today is the recording date
18:45 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, you want to say a few words ?
18:45 < tsunam> sure thing I'll do that now
18:46 < tsunam> As most are aware a few months ago I had some issues with my health. This caused me to step away from my duties for a not insignificant time period
18:46 < tsunam> Due to this and luckily by design of how we setup everything the business was able to continue uninterupted.
18:47 <@NeddySeagoon> good planning that
18:47 < tsunam> However, it also made me consider things in my life including my work for the foundation. What I found is that although I love the work that I've done for the foundation and the members of the foundation I've had the pleasure to work with
18:48 < tsunam> that I believe it is time for me to step down during the next election cycle from my position as a trustee and a treasurer, and allow someone who has more motivation and capabilities then I can bring to the positions that people have entrusted to me
18:49 <@NeddySeagoon> I would like to propose a vote of thanks to tsunam for his work over the last three years
18:49 <@quantumsummers> seconded
18:50 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote
18:50 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
18:50 <@robbat2> aye
18:50 <@dabbott> aye
18:50 <@quantumsummers> aye. Many Thanks Joshua, many thanks
18:50 -!- willikins [~rbot@gentoo/bot/Willikins] has joined #gentoo-trustees
18:50 < tsunam> thank you all :) as its about me I need to abstain ;)
18:50 <@NeddySeagoon> Thanks for all the hard work tsunam.  Make sure we don't owe you money before you leave. 
18:51 < tsunam> NeddySeagoon: will do
18:51 <@NeddySeagoon> Another motion ...
18:51 <@NeddySeagoon> I propose that the board endorses the reelection of robbat2 and quantumsummers  (if they want to stand)
18:52 <@dabbott> seconded
18:52 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote
18:52 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
18:52 < tsunam> aye
18:52 <@dabbott> yes
18:52 <@quantumsummers> yes
18:52 <@robbat2> aye
18:53 <@quantumsummers> I do plan to stand again, for the record, and really appreciate the endorsement of the board
18:53 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried ... I'll ensure that gets into the notices.
18:53 <@robbat2> likewise, I intend to run again, many thanks for the endorsement
18:53 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll poke elections too
18:54 <@dabbott> thanks to both ++
18:54 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more for elections ?
18:54 <@quantumsummers> I am prepared to make the voters list 
18:54 <@quantumsummers> that is all from me
18:54 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, SFLC Questions (Software Freedom Law Center)   
18:56 <@quantumsummers> ok, so just about everything going on right now is waiting on SFLC. Had a long conversation week before last, following up, doing some new stuff, etc,etc
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, we shou;ld list the questions on the agenda maybe
18:56 <@dabbott> yep
18:56 <@NeddySeagoon> Is the  SFLC being responsive ?
18:56 <@quantumsummers> so, the list: cla, the one I proposed was too permissive in license (bsd-ish), recommends fsf version
18:57 <@quantumsummers> ah, NeddySeagoon, well it takes a long time to get things done with them
18:57 <@quantumsummers> they are responsive, just I have to keep poking them for things or they appear to forget
18:57 <@quantumsummers> or are just really busy
18:58 <@NeddySeagoon> We seem to have a fair bit with them ... do we need to set priorities to get things turned around in the order we need or is it just 'lawyers at work'  ?
18:58 <@quantumsummers> there are priorities they are aware of
18:59 <@quantumsummers> anyway, back to the list: tax status: long bit here, summed up in the following. SFLC is appointing some junior attorney to handle working with me directly on this. I think this will make things go faster. 
18:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds good
18:59 <@quantumsummers> further, it appears there has been a change in attitude at the IRS, they are slowing down processing of floss applications
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Care to estimage when our 503(c) application will go in ?
19:00 <@quantumsummers> this might make our petition to them greatly extended
19:00 <@quantumsummers> its all in sflc court now, their guy is getting with me to collect all my docs, then they have a fair bit of writing ahead of them
19:00 <@NeddySeagoon> We can't influence the IRS bit
19:00 <@quantumsummers> not likely
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> It sounds positive, just slow
19:01 <@quantumsummers> if its denied, we will have to appeal in federal court (sflc would handle this of course) our attorney is experiencing this with another group now
19:01 <@quantumsummers> but yes, I am positive. its just likely going to take awhile
19:01 <@NeddySeagoon> heh - good practice 
19:02 < tsunam> heh
19:02 < tsunam> progress is progress...and one should never expect speed when it comes to the government..unless you owe them money :)
19:02 <@quantumsummers> now, this is mentioned below, but the libtxc_dxtn bit is also awaiting response
19:02 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, that must be the same all over the world :)
19:03 <@quantumsummers> so, also discussed the transition of tsunam away from the foundation and the record keeping, etc required
19:04 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, it sounds like you are on top of things with the SFLC ... is there any more you need to share with us in public ?
19:04 < tsunam> I've provided a list of some items previously when I brought it up, but added at least one thing to the list.
19:04 <@quantumsummers> I am keeping a repo with a journal and any/all files dealt with in the process
19:04 <@quantumsummers> yes, thanks tsunam for the list
19:04 <@quantumsummers> very helpful. ducks will line up
19:05 <@quantumsummers> is there anything else I need to report on?
19:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds good. quantumsummers who else has access? I'm aware you are a single point of failure during the transition
19:06 <@quantumsummers> yes, this is a personal repo at the moment. I would push to git.o.g.o if others want access
19:06 <@quantumsummers> it would have to be a private repo, of course
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, long term, you cannot be both sec and treasurer
19:06 <@robbat2> there should be proper private repos on git.g.o sometime in the next few weeks
19:06 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: noted, thanks.
19:06 <@NeddySeagoon> its too much work for one
19:06 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I know, we need a new treas
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
19:07 <@quantumsummers> I think its small enough now that I can easily manage for now
19:07 < tsunam> we do have some people who offered to help that were financial types that quantumsummers and I were interacting with that would be perfect for the position of treasurer 
19:07 <@NeddySeagoon> That has to be on the agenda for April, when we have the AGM
19:07 <@quantumsummers> yes, I have one particular candidate that has offered to do bookkeeping
19:08 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, that works for me.
19:08 <@quantumsummers> I am waiting on sflc to get me the proper docs for this person to sign regarding non-disclosure, privacy, etc
19:08 <@NeddySeagoon> treasurer is an officer so it need not be a board member
19:09 <@quantumsummers> once we have the legal in place I would like to "test drive"  this candidate (and others if needed)
19:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, is this individual interested in becoming a gentoo staffer ?
19:09 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: correct. It would be nice to have some one we know/trust as there will be signatures involved, etc
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> these individuals*
19:10 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I would think so, though I have not discussed this specifically
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> they need to do the staff quiz
19:10 <@quantumsummers> I guess it would be a requirement
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Not specifically - but it shows a little comittment
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> any more SFLC stuff?
19:11 <@quantumsummers> nope.
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Bugs
19:11 <@quantumsummers> one unrelated bit, I have sent reimbursement checks to the GSOC mentors
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> fine
19:12 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, err, you missed me
19:12 <@robbat2> re UltraDNS followup
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe - sorry robbat2 UltraDNS Wrapup
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> It seems to all be still working ...
19:13 <@robbat2> ok, we successfully did the final BIND migration on Dec 27th
19:13 <@robbat2> there's one more technical backend bit waiting for the private git repos, but we're operational already
19:13 <@robbat2> in terms of paperwork
19:13 <@robbat2> we were concerned about being billed for the last month due to when we gave notice
19:14 <@robbat2> there wasn't any problems there at all. Our "official cancel date" for to make the Neustar paperwork easier on their end is 2011/01/31.
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> That sounds good
19:14 <@robbat2> my contact at Neustar wishes us all the best in future
19:15 <@robbat2> that's everything :-)
19:16  * NeddySeagoon proposes a vote of thanks to gentoo-infra for the seamless migration of our DNS
19:16 <@quantumsummers> seconded
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote
19:16 < tsunam> aye
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
19:16 <@quantumsummers> aye
19:16 <@dabbott> yes hire them
19:16 <@robbat2> abstain since it's about infra/me
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried.
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll write to infra@
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Bugs Corrections to corporation filing Bug 296766
19:17 < willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> If this isn't already in the post, we may as well wait until the election results are known
19:18 < tsunam> I've not sent an update
19:18 <@quantumsummers> some of this this went in with our annual report
19:19 <@dabbott> we should just wait
19:19 <@quantumsummers> I can handle this once the election is done
19:19 <@quantumsummers> its a simple form
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ok - thanks
19:19 <@dabbott> also can we help with bug 351045
19:19 < willikins> dabbott: https://bugs.gentoo.org/351045 "www site needs a privacy policy"; Website www.gentoo.org, Social Contract; NEW; robbat2@g.o:infra-bugs@g.o
19:19 <@quantumsummers> that is alsoi in the hands of sflc
19:20 <@dabbott> ok good enough
19:20 <@quantumsummers> I wrote them about this and mentioned the fedora example
19:20 <@robbat2> should we get a draft together for them first?
19:20 <@quantumsummers> I have a few issues with the fedora version
19:20 <@quantumsummers> actually, sure. I started working on a draft last week :)
19:20 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, can you list those issues in the bug?
19:20 <@quantumsummers> yes I cah
19:20 <@quantumsummers> can
19:21 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: it would be helpful to know what we do store for example in ldap, versus forums, etc
19:21 <@quantumsummers> we can switch out our stuff for the fedora stuff 
19:22 <@robbat2> ok I can answer that on the bug for better tracking
19:22 <@quantumsummers> then I think it comes down to tightening the third party data sharing language
19:22 <@quantumsummers> ok, great
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more bugs ?
19:23 <@quantumsummers> there are a few
19:23 <@quantumsummers> bug 285549
19:23 < willikins> quantumsummers: https://bugs.gentoo.org/285549 "Add #gentoo-ir (Iran) to IRC channels list"; Website www.gentoo.org, Other; ASSI; belendax@gmail.com:trustees@g.o
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> do we need to discuss them here
19:23 <@quantumsummers> also with SFLC
19:23 <@quantumsummers> oh, up to you chairman
19:24 <@quantumsummers> Perhaps I just have way too many things on hte sflc plate at the moment, there are like 15 items
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> No point in going through bugs that have not changed
19:24 <@quantumsummers> heh, we can move on & use bugz for this stuff
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> Adding patent-unsafe package (libtxc_dxtn) 
19:25 <@quantumsummers> also with sflc now
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
19:25 <@quantumsummers> err, as oif a wekk or so ago
19:25 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: is there any precedent for this in the portage tree?
19:26 <@quantumsummers> seems truetype-ish
19:26 <@robbat2> hmm
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 6 Membership Applications
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> leave it with sflc
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Gentoo Developers Andreas H?ttel and Bernard Cafarelli
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote aye for both
19:27 <@dabbott> yes to both
19:27 < tsunam> yes on both
19:27 <@quantumsummers> aye for both
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ?
19:28 <@robbat2> aye
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Community Members Mike Gilbert
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> I vote aye
19:28 <@robbat2> aye
19:29 <@quantumsummers> aye
19:29 <@dabbott> yes
19:29 < tsunam> abstain as i didn't review 
19:29 < tsunam> what he has done etc
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried 
19:29 <@quantumsummers> herd tester
19:29 < tsunam> ah
19:29 <@quantumsummers> for chromium I believe
19:29 <@dabbott> he also bug wrangles 
19:29 < tsunam> *nods*
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 7 Advertising Requests - none
19:29 < tsunam> good to know
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 8 Date of Next Meeting - 20th Feb 2011 19:00 UTC
19:30 <@quantumsummers> +1
19:30 <@dabbott> good here
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> +1
19:30 <@robbat2> +1
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam ?
19:30 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: put the log here please foundation/en/minutes/2011
19:31 < tsunam> that's fine
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ok.
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 9   Any other business ...
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> I have some ...
19:31 <@robbat2> none from me at this time
19:32 <@dabbott> I will do the motions and quantumsummers when you get the repo set up I can help keep track of the items for sflc if you want
19:32 <@NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, volunteered me to speak a FOSDEM on a joint Foundation/Council/Devrel platform, about the future organisation of gentoo
19:32 <@quantumsummers> dabbott: ok thank
19:33 <@NeddySeagoon> I' mailed trustees@  for feedback and I had two replies.
19:33 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I gave some feedback in this channel, shall I email it for the record?
19:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Do I have to speak as an individual, or can I speak on behalf of the Foundation
19:33 < tsunam> I'm fine with you speaking on behalf of the foundation
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, no need, I have the log
19:34 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: on behalf of the foundation would be nice, I think we should all participate in the draft though
19:34 <@robbat2> i trust Neddy, i'd like to read what he says, but I don't need to see a draft
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I will try to get the draft slides out before the end of next weekend
19:35 <@quantumsummers> sounds excellent
19:35 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll try to record it - voice only.  I've got a new toy to take to fosdem  :)
19:35 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon: sounds interesting, I am not knowledgable enough on the subject to offer much feedback
19:35 <@quantumsummers> nice :)
19:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Ok, we can clear up the odds and ends on the alias.
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, if you update the members list with the new members today, I'll check it over.
19:37 <@quantumsummers> I can email that out asap
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I have to update the +V list here too
19:38 <@quantumsummers> gotcha
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more 'other business' ?
19:38 <@quantumsummers> well ...
19:38 <@quantumsummers> j/k none from me
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> heh
19:38  * NeddySeagoon will will post the log
19:39 <@NeddySeagoon> Who will update the motions page?
19:39  * dabbott motions
19:39 <@quantumsummers> thanks dabbott
19:39 <@NeddySeagoon> It looks like I volunteered for the emails already
19:39 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 11 Open Floor
19:40 <@dabbott> np looks like 4 i will recheck the log
19:41  * NeddySeagoon bands the gavel to close the meeting
