19:09  * NeddySeagoon banges the gavel to open the November 2011 Gentoo Foundation Inc.  Trustees meeting
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll Call
19:10 <@dabbott> present
19:10 <@quantumsummers|c> present
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm looging
19:10 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, robbat2|na 
19:10 <@rich0> present
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> I seen to recall robbat2 said he may have some difficulty, so lets start
19:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 3 Old Business
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Election Recording Date ... hmmm.
19:12 <@dabbott> I like the idea of the elections after the Annual Report
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I propose the close of our January meeting, if we want to hold elections at the customary time
19:12 <@quantumsummers|c> what is the date of the next election? In March somewhere?
19:12 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, its nomination in Feb, voting in Mar
19:13 <@quantumsummers|c> ok, yeah end of Jan is not a bad idea, like we have done before
19:13 <@quantumsummers|c> I will note that my wife is due at the end of Jan, however
19:13 <@dabbott> so 5 months until the  Annual Report
19:13 <@NeddySeagoon> We could move it closerto the AGM, so new trustees take their seats at the close of the AGM
19:13 <@dabbott> perfect
19:13 <@quantumsummers|c> I am OK with that as well
19:14 <@rich0>  I'm pretty flexible - it doesn't matter that much in practice and we can always try it and see how it works.  Does create the lame-duck issue if you announce well before effective.
19:14 <@rich0> But that works for POTUS.
19:14 <@NeddySeagoon> I have a mild preference of nonminations in July, votes in Aug so the old team present at the AGM
19:15 <@rich0> If there is a membership revolt and they kick out all the trustees we can at least loot the treasury on the way out that way.  :)  (uh, did somebody mention logging)
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> thoughts ?>
19:15 <@quantumsummers|c> seems fine to me
19:15 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, yeah, I did and am
19:15 <@rich0> NeddySeagoon, ++
19:15 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, ++
19:15 <@quantumsummers|c> no looting on my watch unless I get 25%
19:16 <@quantumsummers|c> :D
19:16 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion - that the Trustee eclection be move to better coincide with the AGM. 
19:17 <@quantumsummers|c> seconded
19:17 <@rich0> do we want to go ahead and specify the target, or wait till we get closer?
19:17 <@quantumsummers|c> lets set it
19:17 <@rich0> ie dates/etc.
19:17 <@rich0> So, elections in Aug, nominations in July, meeting in June is recording date?
19:17 <@NeddySeagoon> This also means the elections project will not be slacking at FOSDEM
19:18 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, that works for me
19:18 <@dabbott> sounds good
19:18 <@rich0> NeddySeagoon, care to revise your motion?
19:19 <@rich0> assuming quantumsummers is fine with it?
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Motion that Trustee elsections be elections in Aug, nominations in July, meeting in June is recording date to better alighn with the AGM
19:19 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
19:19 <@quantumsummers|c> seconded
19:19 <@rich0> aye
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote please
19:19 <@dabbott> aye
19:19 <@quantumsummers|c> +1
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
19:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Montion carried
19:20 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers your turn ... SFLC Update, Certified Public Accountant and 501(c)(3) registration status
19:21 <@quantumsummers|c> Ok, so 
19:21 <@quantumsummers|c> sflc: our previous council has moved to the software conservancy or gnome foundation so I hear
19:21 <@quantumsummers|c> Karen, that is
19:21 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, Ah well, do we have a new name ?
19:21 <@quantumsummers|c> I need to setup a meeting to see who will be our contact going forward
19:22 <@robbat2|na> hi
19:22 <@quantumsummers|c> on my list for Monday
19:22 <@quantumsummers|c> hello robbat2|na
19:22 <@NeddySeagoon> hi robbat2|na 
19:22 <@robbat2|na> ah, i messed up the start time
19:22 <@dabbott> hi robbat2|na 
19:22 <@robbat2|na> aye on election dates
19:22 <@dabbott> Motion Trustee elections be elections in Aug, nominations in July, meeting in June is recording date to better align with the AGM in AUG
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, I guess that means the SFLC has made no progress on anything, its it could well be a step backwards.  
19:23 <@quantumsummers|c> that is fairly accurate
19:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, not much you can add to that until after your meeting then
19:23 <@quantumsummers|c> that could also explain why I have received no response for a long time from karen
19:23 <@dabbott> good thing they are free
19:24 <@quantumsummers|c> that is true, dabbott
19:24 <@quantumsummers|c> anyway, we'll get that taken care of, I just need to make contact again.
19:24 <@quantumsummers|c> lets see
19:24 <@quantumsummers|c> financials
19:24 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, does it need to be you?   You nave a lot on just now
19:24 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: no it does not
19:25 <@quantumsummers|c> I would like to have more than one person with them
19:25 <@quantumsummers|c> I think that may make it easier
19:25 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, rich0 how about picking up the pieces with the SFLC ?
19:25 <@dabbott> I can send them an email
19:26 <@rich0> I don't mind getting involved.  What is our end-goal with them anyway?
19:26 <@quantumsummers|c> dabbott: let me setup a meeting first then I can pass the torch
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, it means you would become the point of contact with SFLC.  Its more than just an email ?
19:26 <@quantumsummers|c> the main goal with them is assistance with license issues and other IP-related matters
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, that sounds like a plan
19:26 <@quantumsummers|c> ok
19:26 <@NeddySeagoon> maybe a 3 way session
19:27 <@quantumsummers|c> yep
19:27 <@dabbott> ok sure, quantumsummers|a send me what you have I will contact them and let them know I will be a contact
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, you and rich0 sort it out between you
19:27 <@quantumsummers|c> ok, we'll get that going
19:27 <@quantumsummers|c> how about both rich0 and dabbott
19:27 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't have an issue with that 
19:27 <@quantumsummers|c> really I think all of us should be in contact with them
19:27 <@rich0> Either is fine with me.
19:27 <@dabbott> same here
19:28 <@quantumsummers|c> ok, I'll get the ball rolling on Monday'
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> fine
19:28 <@quantumsummers|c> so, lets see next
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, Certified Public Accountant
19:28 <@rich0> It probably wouldn't hurt for us to think of some specific things we want to accomplish with them.  Maybe sort out the logo?
19:28 <@rich0> (belay that - until we get to it)
19:28 <@quantumsummers|c> sounds good
19:28 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, they already have a list of stuff ...
19:28 <@quantumsummers|c> CPA, this got a little more complicated than I had hoped, so they filed typical extension
19:29 <@quantumsummers|c> this is normal, and I do this every year actually
19:29 <@quantumsummers|c> so we are still working on getting everything together
19:29 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, do we have a CPA under contract ?
19:29 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: yes
19:30 <@quantumsummers|c> this includes the 1023 application, which there is some interesting stuff going on at the IRS apparently which has delayed nearly all FLOSS applications as well as several other types of orgs
19:30 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, thats good to know, can you post the details to the alias please.  We all need to know it
19:30 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: sure, I'll scan the paperwork next week, its all at my office
19:31 <@quantumsummers|c> meant to do that awhile ago, and clearly forgot, sorry
19:31 <@quantumsummers|c> in terms of other financial info
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks.  quantumsummers|a I anticipate you won't have much time/bet much sleep in the new year
19:31 <@NeddySeagoon> bet -> get
19:31 <@quantumsummers|c> we shall see, I don't get much now
19:32 <@quantumsummers|c> we have everyone reimbursed for GSOC travel and Donnie has submitted his invoice for foundation reimbursement
19:32 <@NeddySeagoon> thats good.  Nobody should be out of pocket for that
19:32 <@quantumsummers|c> I have one outstanding bug open for reimbursement for a recent hardware purchase 
19:32 <@quantumsummers|c> we should receive the funds from google soon
19:32 <@quantumsummers|c> which is our main income for the year
19:33 <@quantumsummers|c> I forget the exact number but with travel, etc, its maybe $9K
19:33 <@NeddySeagoon> On a related topic, how do we keep track of projects in progress ?  rich0 maybe your tracker should be expanded
19:33 <@quantumsummers|c> I have been filing bugs for things that involve money for the most part
19:33 <@rich0> I see my tracker being mainly for recurring activities.
19:33 <@rich0> Wouldn't bugs be best for single instances of stuff in progress?
19:34 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2|na: I mentioned this in -infra, but maybe we should have a foundation group for private info/bugs
19:34 <@NeddySeagoon> I know that we have a mips project in progress, there was a similar request for alpha, which seemed to have stalled
19:34 <@quantumsummers|c> as in restrict access, not sure if it matters really
19:34 <@rich0> In fact, in an ideal world you could use the tracker to trigger creating a new bug.  The tracker is the crontab, and the bug is the process.
19:34 <@rich0> quantumsummers|a, ++
19:35 <@rich0> I see this as an issue too.  Right now stuff just goes around on the alias for confidentiality, and we never really close the loop properly to make sure we don't drop things.
19:35 <@quantumsummers|c> anyway, I was told its fairly easy, robbat2|na would know more
19:35 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, that sould pretty good.  Where do we keep track of funds committed by not yet spent ?
19:35 <@rich0> Bugzilla is perfect for tracking things that have a start and an end, and we can lock the bugs that are sensitive, and leave open the ones that are in there now.
19:35 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers|a, there is a trustees group under the foundation product already
19:35 <@quantumsummers|c> rich0: yeah, I agree it would be handy to have a place to manage things more centrally and for future proofing
19:36 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2|na: I mean a restrict access bit
19:36 <@quantumsummers|c> as in there is one already to restrict it to devs only, etc
19:36 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers|a, ah. ok. done
19:36 <@quantumsummers|c> the product is there, yes. might add a few things to it beyond "proposal"
19:36 <@rich0> Yup, just like security bugs, but trustees only and the CC list.
19:36 <@quantumsummers|c> thanks robbat2|na
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> that sounds good
19:37 <@quantumsummers|c> ok, paypal stuff
19:37 <@NeddySeagoon> anyway, sorry for the digression
19:37 <@rich0> I think the templates/organization is a nice to have, but the security is critical since that is what is keeping us out.  We can't go posting bank account numbers even on dev-only bugs.
19:37 <@quantumsummers|c> I am removing some previous persons SSN and replacing it with our EIN
19:37 <@quantumsummers|c> that is some paperwork that I have to submit
19:38 <@quantumsummers|c> it will make it easier moving forward to hand over control to more than one person or another single person, etc
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> I saw the process - it looks horrendus
19:38 <@quantumsummers|c> nah, not too bad really
19:38 <@quantumsummers|c> just paperwork, I have all the info I think
19:38 <@NeddySeagoon> Go ahead then quantumsummers|a 
19:38 <@quantumsummers|c> will do
19:39 <@quantumsummers|c> we were able to get the server to replace osprey and the HDDs that robbat2|na wanted
19:39 <@quantumsummers|c> I need to order 2 new caddies however, once I find where on the dell site
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> thats good
19:40 <@quantumsummers|c> could not locate that on friday
19:40 <@quantumsummers|c> so, some cost there but surely <$100
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> maybe someone in -infra knows where
19:40 <@quantumsummers|c> we overpaid for the HDDs due to Thai floods
19:40 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, well, we are committed now
19:40 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
19:41 <@quantumsummers|c> I have the part number, but could not find it, will probably just call
19:41 <@robbat2|na> quantumsummers|a, we should double-check the caddys for the goog boxes as well
19:41 <@robbat2|na> ping me after the meeting re that stuff
19:41 <@NeddySeagoon> as another aside, my work uses google mail etc.  I get all the foundation stuff in google docs coming up when I'm logged in for work 
19:42 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2|na: alrighty
19:42 <@quantumsummers|c> the google docs stuff can be nice actually
19:43 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, I don't mind but my work might
19:43 <@quantumsummers|c> ah true, you should switch your .forward
19:43 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, I don't have a .forward, I don't think
19:44 <@quantumsummers|c> how on earth then
19:44 <@quantumsummers|c> weird
19:44 <@dabbott> you can set up a gmail account just for gentoo stuff
19:44 <@NeddySeagoon> anyway, back to the agenda
19:44 <@robbat2|na> NeddySeagoon, you use a personal gmail account for work?
19:44 <@robbat2|na> or your google accounts are associated together
19:44 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, No.  The company uses gmail
19:45 <@quantumsummers|c> I do not see how that could happen
19:45 <@robbat2|na> weird
19:45 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, lets not pursue it now, but if anyone has any ideas ...
19:46 <@quantumsummers|c> ok
19:46 <@quantumsummers|c> so, I think that is all from me. Unless someone can remind me of something I have forgotten to cover ...
19:46 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, 501(c)(3) registration status  ... I guess thats stalled meanwhile?
19:47 <@quantumsummers|c> not stalled, just work-in-progress 
19:47 <@quantumsummers|c> still working on it
19:47 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
19:47 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, SSL Options Update and New Masterdistfiles Machine
19:48 <@robbat2|na> SSL option: no change, and i'm actually really happy about that w/ more CA failures being reported.
19:48 <@robbat2|na> as a potential improvement for now
19:48 <@NeddySeagoon> should we drop this from the agenda then ?
19:49 <@NeddySeagoon> CA failures == SSL breaking u around us ?
19:49 <@robbat2|na> for now I think so. i've started on DNSSEC deployment for Gentoo, and we can send other trust metrics via that later
19:49 <@NeddySeagoon> u -> up
19:49 <@robbat2|na> yes
19:50 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
19:50 <@robbat2|na> there's some RFCs on sending ssl cert fingerprints via DNS
19:50 <@quantumsummers|c> +1 to that
19:50 <@robbat2|na> which when combined with DNSSEC, and when the browsers pick them up, will negate a lot of the CA system
19:50 <@quantumsummers|c> with dnssec that could be a big improvement
19:50 <@quantumsummers|c> nice
19:50 <@quantumsummers|c> I just spent a ton of money on thawte certs
19:51 <@robbat2|na> any objections to dropping it for now, w/ a review in 3/4 months?
19:51 <@NeddySeagoon> nope
19:51 <@quantumsummers|c> I wish we didnt have to, but better to not have a false sense of sec I suppose
19:52 <@quantumsummers|c> nicely, if thawte goes down I sue for large sum of money
19:52 <@quantumsummers|c> insurance is nice I guess
19:52 <@robbat2|na> i don't think we'd have gotten their insurance clauses anyway w/ free certs
19:52 <@quantumsummers|c> yeah, I don't think so either
19:52 <@NeddySeagoon> you can insure against technolgy changing? 
19:53 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: you can insure anything :D
19:53 <@robbat2|na> for the right price
19:53 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2|na, New Masterdistfiles Machine
19:53 <@quantumsummers|c> whether the company will survive your claim, that is another issue
19:54 <@quantumsummers|c> New Masterdistfiles Machine == osprey replacement?
19:54 <@robbat2|na> yes
19:54 <@robbat2|na> i haven't seen a response on the ticket if the arrived at osuosl yet
19:54 <@robbat2|na> but i'm not sure if it was set to to cc to infra correctly
19:54 <@quantumsummers|c> yeah, its there
19:55 <@robbat2|na> ok, so just caddys + install left
19:55 <@NeddySeagoon> sounds like progress anyway
19:55 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
19:55 <@quantumsummers|c> although you can install with the current 2 caddies
19:55 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, Foundation Activity Tracker Update
19:55 <@rich0> At this point we're mostly in execution mode.
19:55 <@quantumsummers|c> there are 2 500GB HDDs that are extra now also
19:56 <@rich0> Quick question - did we ever file in Missouri?  
19:56 <@quantumsummers|c> I think that went out, yes
19:56 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, and everyone thought it was a bad idea to add projects on progress ...
19:56 <@quantumsummers|c> I signed the stuff awhile ago
19:56 <@quantumsummers|c> I'll poke the cpa
19:56 <@quantumsummers|c> I suspect the answer is yes
19:56 <@rich0> I think the tracker basically meets it core purpose as an activity reminder.  I'd still like to see the per-task pages beefed up, but I don't see that as being essential.
19:57 <@rich0> Ok, if yes then I'll go ahead and create dates on those filings (for 2012).
19:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets run with it a while
19:57 <@rich0> Did we file the 990?
19:57 <@quantumsummers|c> rich0: we filed an extension
19:57 <@quantumsummers|c> so, we have another 6 months
19:57 <@rich0> Does that cover the new mexico AG as well?
19:58 <@quantumsummers|c> we file a different thing for NM
19:58 <@quantumsummers|c> that is filed
19:58 <@rich0> One of the NM requirements is a copy of the 990.
19:58 <@quantumsummers|c> apparently was filed on Nov 2 by Heather, although I have no idea why they waited
19:59 <@quantumsummers|c> not for the PRC stuff
19:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 4  Bugs
19:59 <@quantumsummers|c> rich0: link me to that
19:59 <@rich0> Ok, feel free to move on with the agenda and I'll send to quantumsummers
19:59 <@quantumsummers|c> thanks
19:59 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need to discuss any bugs in detail ?
20:01 <@robbat2|na> i think they're all in execution or pending external input
20:01 <@quantumsummers|c> the one 296766, can be closed
20:01 <@quantumsummers|c> that is all done
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats what I like to hear, it makes the meeting faster
20:02 <@dabbott> Bug 363871 can that be closed
20:02 < willikins> dabbott: https://bugs.gentoo.org/363871 "Consider StartSSL certificate offer"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; IN_P; robbat2:infra-bugs
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 5 New Busines
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, do we need to write to them to say no thanks, or leave it until we reconsider ?
20:03 <@robbat2|na> i'll write some emails on it
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks robbat2|na 
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> George Boyce | Use of Gentoo Artwork  ... Alien Cow Abductors
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> That artwork in under a CCA licence and our logo is a small part of it, so I don't think we can object
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> is*
20:07 <@dabbott> his request was "I would like permission to use this particular artwork to support a non-profit project under development and described at http://dev.cowabductors.org/"
20:07 <@rich0> So, what do we want to offer them.
20:08 <@rich0> Should we state that we explicitly give him permission to use it as described?
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't think he needs to ask ... the CCA applies.  Its likewhoas wallpaper
20:09 <@rich0> So, should we tell him that he doesn't need to ask?
20:09 <@rich0> Seems like the current non-commercial policy is that he can use it as long as he clarifies that he has nothing to do with us.
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> He needs to follow whatever licence likewhoa released to artwork unde
20:09 <@rich0> Well, he also has to comply with the logo guidelines regardless of the artwork license.
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> what does everyone else think ?
20:10 <@rich0> The artwork license only covers copyright, not trademark.
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, good point
20:10 <@dabbott> its peaches artwork i believe
20:10 <@dabbott> http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/graphics.xml
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> Oops - he needs to get the attribution right :)
20:10 <@dabbott> licensed under CC-BY-SA/2.5
20:11 <@rich0> From a trademark his use is fine if he is non-commercial.
20:11 <@rich0> If he is commercial we'd need to give him an exemption, since it isn't being used to denote that something contains 'gentoo inside" or whatever.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, Its non-commercial - to expose children to robots
20:13 <@rich0> Seems to me that he needs to 1. Check with the artist on their license and comply, and 2. follow the non-commercial guidelines on the logo page and state that the logo is a trademark of gentoo and he isn't gentoo and so on.
20:13 <@rich0> Or, we could give him a pass on having to do #2.
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> I would like to help him ... I'll put together an email for trustees to review.
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Does everyone agree we want to support this ?
20:13 <@rich0> And did I mention that this whole mess is something that would be wonderful to get the SFLC to help out with?
20:14 <@quantumsummers|c> yes, their help would be nice
20:14 <@rich0> I definitely want to remove any burdens.
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Its educational after all and thats a part of our stated objectives
20:14 <@dabbott> thanks NeddySeagoon he was confused over the different licenses involved 
20:14 <@rich0> Whatever form that has to take - we shouldn't be standing in their way.
20:14 <@quantumsummers|c> tbh, I am more than a little upset at the way we were sort of "dropped" if you will
20:14 <@quantumsummers|c> or forgotten more likely
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, I told him it would bediscussed now
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> its not dropped
20:15 <@quantumsummers|c> ok, I see no reason that he cannot use that image without our logo in ther
20:15 <@quantumsummers|c> I meant sflc forgot us
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Ah ok.
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> I will put together a reply on this and send it to the alias for comment
20:16 <@rich0> Sounds good.
20:16 <@dabbott> again thanks
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> I will put a placeholder into George too
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> next item     Gentoo Logo Usage Policy 
20:17 <@rich0> Ugh
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> This could be a long one and we have been running 70 min already, should we hold this over ?
20:18 <@rich0> I think that makes sense, or maybe consider it as something to bring up in our SFLC re-engagement?
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> that sounds good but SFLC won't respond quickly
20:18 <@rich0> My suggestion is that we come up with some kind of holistic policy that covers copyright/trademark/etc so that we don't have these confusing double-treatments.
20:18 <@rich0> But we don't have to hash that out now.
20:19 <@rich0> Maybe we should consider reading the stuff in the agenda as homework in the meantime.
20:19 <@dabbott> lets brainstorm on the ml
20:19 <@rich0> Yes - sounds good.
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> I like that - maybe two logos like Debian.  We have two already.  The G and the unoffcial LArry
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Moving on ...
20:19 <@rich0> Maybe, or even if it is just one have one policy that covers both copyright and trademark.
20:19 <@rich0> Ok, onwards...
20:19 <@robbat2|na> i'll send in a link for the ubuntu equiv link as well
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 6 Membership Applications ... None
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Part 3 Cleanup ...
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 18th Dec 2011 19:00 UTC
20:20 <@quantumsummers|c> +1
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> That works for me
20:20 <@dabbott> fine here
20:21 <@robbat2|na> should work fine for me, might be slightly late
20:21 <@rich0> +1
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> fine.
20:21 <@robbat2|na> (that's a weekend of christmas parties here)
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> you party early robbat2|na.  We start for hogmany aroudn Dec 25th 
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business ...
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbot ?
20:22 <@dabbott> none 
20:22 <@robbat2|na> no AOB from me
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, you always have something
20:22 <@quantumsummers|c> nope, just chuck testa
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, heh
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, did Heather get our good standing fixed and find out what happened ?
20:23 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: she had not heard back on Friday when I went home, I'll contact again on Monday.
20:23 <@quantumsummers|c> I'm sure we are fine though, just slow processing
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> As long the she is onto it
20:23 <@rich0> Yup - if we talked to them we should be fine.
20:24 <@quantumsummers|c> we made the deadline, no worries
20:24 <@rich0> Wheels of government turn slowly.
20:24 <@quantumsummers|c> just freaked me out a bit
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats all from me, I think
20:24 <@quantumsummers|c> thanks for pointing that out dabbott
20:24 <@rich0> Yeah, I understand the feeling.  Glad you spotted it.
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Responsibilities 
20:24 <@rich0> Rather than a slashdot submitter.  :)
20:24 <@quantumsummers|c> oh, I will be having a gentoo onesie made for my boy, so if anyone wants one, I will have another made (organic cotton)
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> I will write to George Boyce and post the log
20:24 <@quantumsummers|c> will have pics, etc for the front page :P
20:24 <@quantumsummers|c> thanks
20:25 <@rich0> Oh boy...
20:25 <@dabbott> can we switch everything to missouri and drop nm
20:25 <@quantumsummers|c> not likely to drop NM
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, Oh, you know its just the one then ?
20:25 <@quantumsummers|c> yes, and a boy
20:25 <@dabbott> once missouri is good
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> I do have something else.
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> The Sec ad ?
20:25 <@quantumsummers|c> yeah, lets run it unless someone here wants the job
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we want to post the ad as is or does it need more work ?
20:26 <@quantumsummers|c> I have a python/django membership app that makes that stuff fairly simple
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, I would like to appont an officer who is not a trustee
20:26 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: seems ok, I am just concerned since the person will have signatory power
20:27 <@quantumsummers|c> it would be nice to have some level of trust
20:27 <@quantumsummers|c> maybe meet them face to face, etc
20:27 <@quantumsummers|c> I am paranoid though
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, I want to keep the bard low for enquires, we can ask for more info once we have some nibbles
20:27 <@quantumsummers|c> ok
20:27 <@quantumsummers|c> sounds good
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|a, last time we ran that ad, we got exactly one response - you
20:28 <@quantumsummers|c> yeah, I know. Hard to believe that
20:28 <@quantumsummers|c> crazy, no one wants to volunteer for that stuff
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm quite keen to expand the management of the foundation beyond the trustees
20:28 <@quantumsummers|c> as am I
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Can we get it on the front page ?
20:29 <@dabbott> quantumsummers|a, what about max he even sent an resume
20:29 <@quantumsummers|c> dabbott can do that
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> I can put an announce and discuss on the forums
20:29 <@quantumsummers|c> dabbott: email him, great idea
20:29 <@quantumsummers|c> Max would be a good candidate
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> fine
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> put the ad up and email him a pointer
20:30 <@quantumsummers|c> cool
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> that was all I had, so onto Open Floor
20:31  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
