20:04  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the October the 16th Gentoo Foundation Inc. trustees meeting.    I'm logging.  robbat2 sends apologies. 
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll Call
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, quantumsummers_ rich0  ?
20:05 <@dabbott> present
20:05 <@rich0> here
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> We have a quorum but a lot of stuff needs quantumsummers_ - lets give him a few minutes
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets start ... rich0 It looks like you are first, with the          Foundation Activity Tracker Update
20:10 <@rich0> Sure
20:10 <@rich0> Not much change - I haven't been bugging everybody as much as I probably should, but if anybody could send me their notes on how they've prepared the various docs/etc I can try to put them into the activity descriptions.
20:10 <@rich0> The tracker itself (the main page) is otherwise close to done.  I did propose roles for all the tasks.
20:11 <@rich0> In fact, I note that one task was due yesterday.
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds like a plan.  Yep, I recall reviewing the proposed roles.
20:11 <@rich0> Did we send in the New Mexico annual report?
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, thats a quantumsummers_ task ...
20:12 <@rich0> Ok, I'll follow-up with him or we can bring it up later if he shows.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Ir was going to be ready a week or so after the last meeting
20:12 <@rich0> Yup - and long-term if we document how the activities are done and where the official copies are stored then updating it will be more self-service.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
20:12 <@rich0> My goal is to have official repositories for copies of all filed documents/etc.
20:13 <@rich0> Unless anybody has comments I don't think there is much to discuss.
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> You mean like CVS/git or something like that ?
20:13 <@rich0> That was my thinking.
20:13 <@rich0> Of course, some stuff should probably be secured (non-public).
20:13 <@rich0> Perhaps with redacted copies posted publicly - details.
20:14 <@rich0> But, my thinking is that there should be someplace official where we stick official stuff so that we know it won't burn in a fire/etc.
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> yes.
20:14 <@rich0> Need not be the same place for everything, but if you look at my template I have a spot to tell the world where it is.
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> Do we need to discuss bugs?
20:14 <@rich0> It need not be a place the world has keys to.
20:14 <@rich0> moving on...
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe true
20:15 <@rich0> Any funding bugs ripe for discussion?
20:15 <@rich0> I think both are already approved?
20:15 <@dabbott> I don't see any new bugs
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> The infra HW stuff needs an infra rep.  We maybe need to vote funds for the 1G Switch, unless thats coming out of the infra maintaince budget.
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> bug 383573
20:16 <@rich0> Should we be logging more bugs for all the mail chains?
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> If we are in danger of loosing track - yes
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> bug #383573
20:17 <@dabbott> I can't view 383573
20:18 <@rich0> Marked devs-only.
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, its locked - you need to log in
20:18 <@rich0> Probably not quite the right security.
20:18 <@dabbott> ohh ok
20:18 <@dabbott> my main box died yesterday
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> Its locked as it contains personal information
20:18 <@rich0> Yup.
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> The vote is to approve funding for the new 1G switch just being sent to OSL.  The total value is not there yet, as shipping to OSL has not been added
20:20 <@NeddySeagoon> ... maybe vote on it on the list, when dabbott can read it
20:21 <@rich0> I'm fine to vote now or whenever.
20:21 <@dabbott> I logged in looks fine
20:21 <@rich0> I'm sure we can just approve for up to $350 or whatever to cover shipping.
20:21 <@dabbott> we can vote now, we need a motion?
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, that was close to a motion ... care to reword?
20:21 <@rich0> sure
20:22 <@dabbott> does infra have a budget for stuff like this
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> Only for repairs - this is new stuff
20:22 <@rich0> motion to approve #383573 for a new switch - spend funds plus reasonable shipping up to $50
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> seconded
20:22 <@rich0> aye
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
20:22 <@dabbott> aye
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried.  Action quantumsummers_ to pay the bill
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 5 New Business  Gentoo Logo Usage Policy  really needs everyone.  I suggest we skip it
20:25 <@rich0> Makes sense - might not hurt to discuss offline.  Maybe even post to -nfp for comment?
20:25 <@dabbott> seconded
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, sure.
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Items 6 and 7 are null
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Which gets us to the Cleanup
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 20th Nov 2011 19:00 UTC
20:27 <@rich0> WORKSFORME
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> We'll be back on GMT then, so its an hour earlier for me
20:27 <@dabbott> fine here
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> 19:00 wintertime it is then
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business ...
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Nothing from me
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, if you update the motions, I'll post the log
20:29 <@dabbott> will do
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ...
20:30  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
