17:31  * NeddySeagoon bangs the virtual gavel to call the meeting to order
17:31 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call
17:31 <@dabbott> present
17:31 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm logging
17:32  * quantumsummers is present
17:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, robbat2 rich0 #
17:32 <@rich0> present
17:33 <@NeddySeagoon> Ok, whe have a quorum, so lets start
17:33 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, You have the floor.  You have quite a list there
17:33 <@quantumsummers> :) yes I do ...
17:34 <@quantumsummers> TL;DR Summary: All things are progressing well. :)
17:34 <@robbat2> pong
17:35 <@quantumsummers> Treasurer Report: Still working on this. I have all data for paypal, am awaiting fax of capital 1 account statements.
17:36 <@quantumsummers> Wanted to get with Robin re: a ledger instance for our financial data
17:36 <@NeddySeagoon> We said we will move the AGM to August - is that still a good time to present it ?
17:36 <@quantumsummers> I have written a python script t convert the paypal CSV into OFX format (useful in general)
17:36 <@robbat2> what's the date of the august meeting again?
17:36 <@dabbott> 21st Aug
17:37 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: yes, I will have the thing done this next week, sorry for the contiinued delay
17:37 <@robbat2> ok, 20% chance I'll be absent from the august meeting, but low enough
17:37 <@quantumsummers> further, I have been working with CPA on summary financials for the entire history of the foundation
17:37 <@NeddySeagoon> No worries - I was more concerned about moving the AGM to August, then missing it next year
17:37 <@quantumsummers> just waiting on Cap1 for their stuff
17:38 <@NeddySeagoon> Will we be billed monthly for costs incurred or one bill at the end ?
17:39 <@quantumsummers> SFLC: nothing really happening with them. I will be attempting to make contact with Karen on Monday, if there is anything anyone wants asked outside the 100 things already on the list, email please.
17:39 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I am trying to do a single bill for 501c3 and 1 bill for taxes
17:39 <@NeddySeagoon> have you told them we will not usethem for our 501c3 ?
17:39 <@quantumsummers> SFLC? No
17:39 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I like that break
17:40 <@quantumsummers> I want to be able to consult in the case its needed
17:40 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Ah, ok
17:40 <@quantumsummers> Here is soemthing of interest
17:40 <@quantumsummers> few years back the head of the django sw foundation invited me to join a FLOSS Foundations ML
17:41 <@quantumsummers> all of the major FLOSS groups are represented
17:41 <@quantumsummers> I have mainly been just "listening"
17:41 <@quantumsummers> would anyone from the board like to be invited?
17:41 <@quantumsummers> I have found it to be very useful
17:41 <@quantumsummers> anyway, let me know
17:42 <@quantumsummers> there has been discussion related to 501c3 filings and long wait times
17:42 <@NeddySeagoon> right now, I don't have the time
17:42 <@NeddySeagoon> can you pass that on or is it a closed ml ?
17:42 <@rich0> quantumsummers, I wouldn't mind an invite.
17:42 <@quantumsummers> rich0: ok cool. Its a good group, fairly low traffic
17:42 <@rich0> I'm trying to get caught up on compliance and get ahead of issues.
17:43 <@quantumsummers> awesome
17:43 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I'm interested too but I won't be active until RL calms down a bit
17:43 <@quantumsummers> anyone else want to get to know your fellow floss non-profit people?
17:43 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I understand completely
17:44 <@dabbott> quantumsummers, send me an invite
17:44 <@quantumsummers> For the record, I do not think the birth of child will effect my participation too much. I should be up alot at night
17:44 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, nope, i've got enough on my plate
17:44 <@quantumsummers> dabbott ok! robbat2 np.
17:44 <@quantumsummers> 3 of 5 is pretty good.
17:45 <@quantumsummers> I can always fwd anything interesting
17:45 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Congratulations!  It probably will affect your participation.  Infants take a lot of your time
17:45 <@rich0> quantumsummers, congratulations!  
17:45 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I cannot afford for it to effect things too much :)
17:46 <@quantumsummers> I can delegate to my minions if necessary
17:46 <@quantumsummers> thanks rich0, I'm really excited
17:46 <@quantumsummers> 1st kid and all
17:46 <@quantumsummers> will have a photo in a gentoo onsie asap
17:46 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, think about which office you want to keep. We will try to recruit for the other
17:46 <@quantumsummers> onezy?
17:46 <@rich0> quantumsummers, I think I can understand just a bit - stepdaughter brought home orphan kittens 2.5 months ago.
17:46 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: ack
17:47 <@quantumsummers> i have 3 cats at the moment, good ones
17:47 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, I married a family too :)
17:48 <@quantumsummers> kids are fun, will have a gentoo-powered monitoring system up by sept
17:48 <@NeddySeagoon> anyway - bact to the agenda
17:48 <@quantumsummers> yes
17:48 <@quantumsummers> so, I think I have covered most things on the list ... I have an attorney here that I ahve worked with for 6 years on call if we need
17:49 <@quantumsummers> I did take care of the trademark thing, and I did hear back from Fenwick people finally
17:49 <@quantumsummers> Question:
17:49 <@quantumsummers> Do we want to have them take care of these things in the future/
17:49 <@quantumsummers> ?
17:49 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do we have a contract with a CPA ?  You were authorised to set something up for 18 months or so
17:49 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I have the paperwork in place. 
17:49 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, are they still pro bono for us ?
17:50 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I will discuss that, they are still the attorney of record
17:50 <@dabbott> quantumsummers, what about adding corp to missouri?
17:50 <@quantumsummers> dabbott have not done that yet. Was planning that next week, early
17:50 <@quantumsummers> I have my office as our location outside of NM on the NM filings
17:50 <@quantumsummers> using my PO box as well
17:50 <@dabbott> is all the new mexico stuff done ?
17:51 <@quantumsummers> so, we should get mail
17:52 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do you have a 501c3 file date estimate ?
17:52 <@quantumsummers> dabbott I have not filed the annual report yet, just got it. Had a question, got my answer on Friday. Will file next week
17:52 <@quantumsummers> most likely on Tuesday
17:52 <@quantumsummers> $25 fee
17:52 <@quantumsummers> will write a check (checque)
17:52 <@quantumsummers> err, ya know what I mean
17:52 <@quantumsummers> cheque
17:52 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
17:53 <@quantumsummers> so, things are moving along rather smoothly I think. I feel comfortable estimating mid August to file as long as the CPA is fine with everything.
17:53 <@NeddySeagoon> That sound a good -  in time for our EGM on 21st of August
17:53 <@quantumsummers> I would like to have an attorney review a few things. I will attempt to get that pro bono or informally first.
17:53 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
17:54 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, do you have any more ?
17:54 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I will give it my all to make it before the AGM
17:54 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I cannot think of anything right now.
17:54 <@dabbott> quantumsummers, I think you should concentrate on the financial matters and delegate the secretary duties, don't be afraid to ask
17:54 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, your turn on the SSL Options 
17:54 <@quantumsummers> dabbott I would prefer that, I think.
17:55 <@robbat2> i'm still pending a response from digicert as to what renewal T&C would be, and ability to expand to more certs if we need them
17:55 <@robbat2> the key difference thus far
17:56 <@robbat2> seems to be that digicert would be handling certs outside of their normal process (vs startcom/cacert where it would have been entirely in their normal process)
17:56 <@robbat2> so no news
17:56 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: what happened with Comodo?
17:57 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, what about the intrusion into your personal data ?
17:57 <@robbat2> oops, my brainfart. s/digicert/comodo/ above
17:57 <@quantumsummers> kk
17:57 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, that was startcom, and one of the reasons we didn't go with them
17:57 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, thanks - I'm fine with that
17:57 <@quantumsummers> Comodo is better?
17:58 <@robbat2> they haven't asked for any of my personal data
17:58 <@robbat2> just links to our corp filing stuff
17:58 <@quantumsummers> cool. if you need anything from me as signatory, please lemme know
17:58 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 4 Bugs
17:58 <@quantumsummers> ^Foundation signatory
17:59 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't think there is anything to go through this month.  Does anyone want to say anything about our open bugs ?
17:59 <@quantumsummers> everyone that I am aware of that needed payment has been paid
18:00 <@robbat2> it would be nice to get some of the artwork licensing bugs closed
18:00 <@quantumsummers> yes i agree
18:00 <@dabbott> bug 369185
18:00 <@quantumsummers> also, 327859 (battery) can be closed
18:00 < willikins> dabbott: https://bugs.gentoo.org/369185 "Official "g" logo should be licensed under "CC-BY-SA/2.5 or CCPL-Sampling-Plus-1.0" and declared as such explicitly (2 places)"; Website www.gentoo.org, Graphics; IN_P; sping:trustees
18:01 <@robbat2> ok, on that, I'd like to explain something re the CCPL
18:01 <@robbat2> for the record
18:01 <@robbat2> (it was already in the recent emails)
18:01 <@NeddySeagoon> go ahead robbat2 
18:01 <@robbat2> CCPL-Sampling-Plus, as a license
18:01 <@robbat2> covers two things:
18:02 <@robbat2> 1. for the original work, unmodified only: CC-NC-SA
18:02 <@robbat2> 2. for any derived/transformed works: CC-BY-SA
18:02 <@robbat2> this means:
18:03 <@robbat2> 1. we need a seperate explicit commercial permission granting mechanism to allow commercial use of the g logo
18:04 <@robbat2> 2. commercial use of the derived works is not blocked at all
18:04 <@NeddySeagoon> I think we already have 1.
18:04 <@NeddySeagoon> 2 is bad
18:04 <@robbat2> why do you think #2 there is bad?
18:05 <@quantumsummers> we should be able to license the use of our trademark for a fee, imo.
18:06 <@quantumsummers> not that peeps are beating down the door or anything
18:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Because someone could make a derived work from the G logo and sell it.   Its not clear to me how the Logo usage guidelines would apply to derived works, if at all
18:06 <@robbat2> derived is a really large spectrum
18:06 <@rich0> Yup, changing a pixel is probably a derived work.
18:06 <@NeddySeagoon> derived means recognisable as our logo
18:06 <@rich0> Unless the license spells it out.
18:07 <@robbat2> the wording in the actual license is that it must be creatively transformed
18:07 <@robbat2> does one pixel count as creative?
18:07 <@rich0> In that case, likely no.
18:07 <@rich0> Unless it is in /just/ the right place.  :)
18:07 <@robbat2> now what happens in the case of re-rendering from the blender sources w/ different lighting?
18:07 <@robbat2> it's a morass
18:07 <@NeddySeagoon> then its a dropped bit 
18:08 <@rich0> My general concern with CCPL-Sampling-Plus is that I'm not sure it was really created for trademark purposes.
18:08 -!- mattst88 [~mattst88@gentoo/developer/mattst88] has quit [Read error: Connection reset by peer]
18:08 <@NeddySeagoon> that depends on how well our registered logo is defined
18:08 <@robbat2> there is nothing for trademark purposes that I can find
18:08 <@robbat2> perhaps more insightful is what Ubuntu has done
18:09 -!- mattst88 [~mattst88@gentoo/developer/mattst88] has joined #gentoo-trustees
18:09 <@NeddySeagoon> with two logos ?
18:09 <@robbat2> no, they have no license statement on their logos at all, and just have this instead: http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/ubuntu-brand-guidelines/
18:09 <@rich0> Debian does something similar.
18:10 <@rich0> They have the two logos, but again they don't try to license them under CC/etc, but instead just have a policy spelled out that is specific to the trademark.
18:10 <@quantumsummers> I tend to like that, further Debian has excellent legal council
18:11 <@dabbott> http://design.canonical.com/the-toolkit/ubuntu-brand-guidelines/trademarks/
18:11 <@rich0> I suspect that something like this is probably better than trying to get a copyright-license designed to promote sharing to fit a trademark where it must be carefully controlled.
18:11 <@quantumsummers> (another reason to take advantage of that ML I mentioned earlier)
18:11 <@rich0> http://www.ubuntu.com/aboutus/trademarkpolicy
18:11 <@rich0> In fact, the policy for Ubuntu is itself CC licensed so we can even copy/paste it if we attribute them.
18:12 <@quantumsummers> ubuntu is based in EU, no?
18:12 <@quantumsummers> Canonical, I mean
18:12 <@NeddySeagoon> I don't know
18:13 <@NeddySeagoon> it looks like we should reconsider our logo licence then
18:14 <@robbat2> http://www.canonical.com/legal <-- UK
18:15 <@robbat2> regardless of what we do in terms of a decision, reading and trying to understand all of this has lead me to think that we need to come up with a couple of common cases and explicitly document them for users wanting to do artwork
18:16 <@NeddySeagoon> that sounds like a plan
18:16 <@quantumsummers> maybe sping can help with that :D
18:16 <@robbat2> my personal opinion for the license decision itself, is to stick with CCPL, and word it on our page as substantially transformed
18:16 <@NeddySeagoon> well, maybe he can suggest some use cases
18:17 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: sounds reasonable
18:17 <@NeddySeagoon> substantially sounds a bit vague
18:18 <@robbat2> but i'm less concerned with protecting our trademark, I don't think the problem is anywhere near as large as perceived by other trustees
18:18 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, do you have a suggested form of words ?
18:18 <@robbat2> i was going to do it via the use case examples actually
18:18 <@NeddySeagoon> Hmm. OK.  So we need to poke sping.
18:19 <@NeddySeagoon> any mre on bugs ?
18:19 <@robbat2> not from me
18:19 <@robbat2> quantumsummers, ask that ML meanwhile please?
18:19 <@quantumsummers> the phrase "substantive alteration" has some legal precendent
18:19 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: good idea
18:19 <@quantumsummers> full ack
18:19 <@NeddySeagoon> Agenda Item 5 New Business
18:19 <@NeddySeagoon> New Masterdistfiles Machine
18:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Is there a spec yet ?
18:20 <@robbat2> it's darkside's agenda item, and he's not here this weekend
18:20 <@robbat2> i haven't seen a spec
18:20 <@quantumsummers> Nor have I
18:20 <@NeddySeagoon> Should we ask the company that offered us DNS for such a server ?
18:20 <@quantumsummers> I wonder if this could be fit into the quad node I have suggested (maybe not due to disk requirements)
18:21 <@NeddySeagoon> I still owe them a reply
18:21 <@quantumsummers> Cannot hurt to suggest such an idea
18:22 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, if you're going to write said reply, infra is open to more hardware w/ hosting in general
18:22 <@NeddySeagoon> I would like to write back and say we could use such and such a box ...
18:22 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ok, I'll make it general then
18:22 <@robbat2> the one catch w/ masterdistfiles
18:22 <@robbat2> is that specific box needs to live at OSL
18:22 <@robbat2> due to the mirror infrastructure
18:22 <@quantumsummers> kk, noted
18:22 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
18:22 <@robbat2> so asking any sponsors for that box probably won't fly
18:23 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
18:23 <@robbat2> since most of them have retained ownership & possesion of their hardware
18:23 <@NeddySeagoon> understood
18:23 <@quantumsummers> my 0.02 USD is that we should purchase some useful HW to live at osuosl
18:24 <@robbat2> agreed, just somebody with more time than me needs to put those specs/request together
18:24 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, I'm not against that idea
18:24 <@robbat2> which is hopefully darkside
18:24 <@quantumsummers> also, a consideration: I might be able to score  us a cabinet lease in my data center
18:25 <@NeddySeagoon> that brings us to cleanup
18:25 <@quantumsummers> for cheapish
18:25 <@NeddySeagoon> DoNM 21 Aug
18:25 <@quantumsummers> fine by me
18:25 <@robbat2> 20% chance I won't make it, but otherwise fine
18:25 <@dabbott> fine here
18:26 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, ?
18:26 <@rich0> also 20% chance of not being able to make it, but likely fine
18:26 <@robbat2> (i'm volunteering at something the night before the meeting, and depends how quickly we get wrapped up, could be anywhere 2-5am before I get home)
18:26 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, sounds like a hell of a party :)
18:27 <@rich0> I have a family vacation around then, but will likely not have an issue attending unless I'm behind the wheel.
18:27 <@NeddySeagoon> Should we move the meeting a week ?
18:27 <@robbat2> it's also immediately after LinuxCon, so i was planning on inviting some of that crowd out to the party
18:27 <@rich0> If anything I suspect that moving it earlier will only increase the risk of my not making it, but uncertain.
18:27 <@dabbott> lets put it off for 1 week
18:27 <@NeddySeagoon> IS the 14th Aug better ?
18:27 <@robbat2> moving it either direction decreases my chance
18:27 <@robbat2> i say we just go for the 21st
18:28 <@dabbott> ok
18:28 <@NeddySeagoon> OK, 21st it is then
18:28 <@quantumsummers> wfm
18:28 <@rich0> Sounds good
18:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other Business ?
18:28 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, ?
18:28 <@robbat2> no AoB from me
18:28 <@rich0> I was just going to mention that per my manifesto I do intend to create a compliance checklist of sorts for the foundation.
18:29 <@robbat2> +1
18:29 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, sounds good
18:29 <@rich0> Nothing to communicate here, but perhaps stay tuned on the -nfp list.
18:29 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
18:29 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ?
18:29 <@dabbott> rich0, super
18:29 <@quantumsummers> none from me.
18:29 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you always have sounething
18:29 <@quantumsummers> not this time
18:30 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post logs
18:30 <@NeddySeagoon> and email sping
18:30 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, that leaves yu the montions :)
18:30 <@dabbott> I will update the agenda, no motions :)
18:30 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, shoul we dust off thr secretart ad that you responded to ?
18:30 <@NeddySeagoon> +d
18:31 <@dabbott> NeddySeagoon, +1
18:31 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, if thats the office you would like to vacate most
18:32 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I think so. Just need to insure that the person is responsible as they will have legal authority
18:32 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, We made a good choice with yourself ...
18:32 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ...
18:32 <@quantumsummers> Thanks NeddySeagoon
18:33  * NeddySeagoon silently bangs the virtual gavel to close the meeting
