[20:59] 	gongloo	boo
[20:59] 	grobian	hi!
[20:59] 	gongloo	hi!
[20:59] 	gongloo	wanted to apologize for being out of the loop longer than i had originally intended
[21:00] 	grobian	long time no see
[21:00] 	gongloo	details are on my blog, but the gist is that my server died and had to be rebuilt
[21:00] 	j4rg0n	grobian: yeah, I needed time off to get my medical school applications together
[21:00] 	Flameeyes	kito, we're expecting someone else?
[21:00] 	gongloo	not to mention that whole hurricane rita thing
[21:00] 	grobian	ah, you guys in the middle of that?
[21:00] 	gongloo	grobian: she is. i'm in the middle of job apps
[21:00] 	j4rg0n	I'm back as of a few days ago, but my time is still limited. I've got interviews all next month
[21:00] 	grobian	aha
[21:01] 	*	spb- looks in
[21:01] 	grobian	kito, do we wait a minute or five to see who jumps in?
[21:01] 	*	Flameeyes sees a lazy spb's clone
[21:02] 	j4rg0n	grobian: I'd prefer not, as it's 3PM here and I'm still missing lunch...
[21:02] 	gongloo	speaking of lunch
[21:02] 	spb-	ha
[21:02] 	spb-	i have toast next to keyboard
[21:02] 	Flameeyes	kito, still with us or the power has gone?
[21:02] 	gongloo	i'm going to go get something from the caf√© while you guys um... discuss stuff
[21:02] 	grobian	kito, ping
[21:02] 	gongloo	i'll brb
[21:02] 	*	gongloo goes and gets himself+j4 some food
[21:03] 	grobian	hmmm, Flameeyes you take the lead here?
[21:03] 	Flameeyes	grobian, seems like kito has gone... ok starting from the order in the topic...
[21:03] 	Flameeyes	rollcall: who is still with us, who is not?
[21:03] 	*	spb- is, believe it or not
[21:03] 	grobian	ok
[21:03] 	spb-	in theory at least
[21:03] 	grobian	spb-, on what exactly?
[21:04] 	spb-	what on what ?
[21:04] 	Flameeyes	from bsd i have quite an idea of who there is
[21:04] 	j4rg0n	okay, I can give a few ] 	grobian	at max 4
[21:04] 	spb-	Flameeyes: looking at project pages here?
[21:04] 	j4rg0n	alexander has been a pretty big "not" since the start
[21:05] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, grobian, j4rg0:05] 	Flameeyes	spb-, yeah project page
[21:05] 	j4rg0n	ndimiduk is also there, but busy a lot
[21:05] 	j4rg0n	he does do some stuff tho
[21:05] 	spb-	has alexander ever done anything?
[21:spb- nods
[21:07] 	Flameeyes	well then the developers listed on macos page are more or less existant... pvdabeel?
[21:07] 	j4rg0n	eklipse is not active
[21:07] 	grobian	never seen him
[21:0] 	j4rg0n	i dunno if he/she's still listed
[21:07] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, he's not even on the project page
[21:07] 	j4rg0n	okay
[21:07] 	Flameeyes	josejx, gongloo, grobian, j4rg0n, kito, ndimiduk, pvdabeel
[21:07] 	Flameeyes	that is the project page
[21:07] 	grobian	ndimiduk is very very limited active
[21:08] 	j4rg0n	he's on the main staff page tho
[21:08] 	j4rg0n	grobian: right, but he is active somewhat
[21:08] 	j4rg0n	unlike alexander
[21:08] 	j4rg0n	grobian: also, if you give him things to do, he'll do it
[21:08] 	Flameeyes	for the gentoo-alt project page, i think the best way is to do as we do for bsd page http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/gentoo-alt/bsd/index.xml with inheritmembers
[21:08] 	grobian	josejx said himself he's not playing with his mac anymore
[21:08] 	j4rg0n	he just lacks self-direction AFAICT
[21:08] 	j4rg0n	can the future project lead get rid of the excess devs tho?
[21:09] 	grobian	Flameeyes, kito had some clear thoughts on this
[21:09] 	Flameeyes	grobian, on what?
[21:09] 	grobian	on the page
[21:09] 	Flameeyes	grobian, we already talked about the inheritmembers to clean up the devs list
[21:09] 	spb-	j4rg0n: we can talk to devrel about retiring the inactive ones
[21:09] 	grobian	Flameeyes, somethings like that and let all inherit fromgentoo-alt
[21:09] 	kito	ok, work will continue to interrupt, sorry about that
[21:10] 	grobian	kito :)
[21:10] 	Flameeyes	grobian, it's the opposite, gentoo-alt inherits from bsd and macos
[21:10] 	kito	I propse we just update the alt-project page
[21:10] 	Flameeyes	[like bsd inherits from fbsd]
[21:10] 	kito	and those who are ommitted, can be added if they really care
[21:10] 	grobian	Flameeyes, ignore my comment, kito knows
[21:10] 	Flameeyes	kito, that is point 4 anyway :P
[21:10] 	kito	devrel can handle doing the actual retiring
[21:10] 	kito	thats not our problem
[21:10] 	Flameeyes	kito, yeah right, as we did for sound
[21:10] 	kito	so, current os x devs seem to be : grobian,j4rg0n, kito, ndimiduk, gongloo
[21:11] 	grobian	ok
[21:11] 	j4rg0n	kito: correct
[21:11] 	kito	Flameeyes and bsd?
[21:11] 	j4rg0n	kito: all i'm saying is the future lead should cct devrel about our inactive devs
[21:11] 	j4rg0n	just to list them as inactive
[21:11] 	Flameeyes	kito, bsd is me, spb, ka0ttic and citizen right now
[21:11] 	Flameeyes	the project page is already updated, and so is the herd
[21:11] 	kito	ok
[21:11] 	grobian	nice
[21:12] 	spb-	angusyoung might be on the return, but probably should be left off for now
[21:12] 	kito	so right now, the alt page members should be exactly macos+bsd devs
[21:12] 	spb-	yar
[21:12] 	Flameeyes	spb-, don't think he will have the time soon, seeing how was before, but yeah he'll probably be back in the future
[21:12] 	kito	g2boojum is not active in bsd anymore correct?
[21:12] 	Flameeyes	kito, right
[21:12] 	kito[21:12] 	kito	next topic?
[21:12] 	Flameeyes	project lead
[21:12] 	grobian	2)?
[21:12] 	grobian	k
[21:13] 	*	kito has changed the topic to: 2) Project Lead 3) Sub-project organization 4) Project pages 5) Roadmap 6) Portage re-write 7) ${ARCH} usage 8) ebuild naming and categorization 9) Merging patches to tree 10) Repoman checks 11) Open Floor
[21:13] 	spb-	nominations anyone?
[21:13] 	Flameeyes	now it's sure that we need a project lead ...
[21:13] 	kito	how bad is this really needed?
[21:13] 	kito	actually, I guess with the new council rules, it is a req.
[21:13] 	Flameeyes	kito, quite enough, we have no coordination between the projects right now
[21:13] 	j4rg0n	i think it's needed, you already know my opinions
[21:13] 	spb-	kito: i'm thinking it's probably worth having someone there if only for coordination etc
[21:13] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes++
[21:13] 	gongloo	back
[21:13] 	kito	ok
[21:14] 	grobian	Flameeyes, ok
[21:14] 	spb-	bsd and macos are doing so much of the same stuff
[21:14] 	Flameeyes	and we have quite a few common projects: catalyst and sandbox for start
[21:14] 	kito	spb- indeed
[21:14] 	grobian	spb-, how is your macos likeness?
[21:14] 	spb-	grobian: hm?
[21:14] 	j4rg0n	as long as it's not an operational type lead, i'd be happy with one lead between the two alt projects, just for coordination's sake
[21:14] 	grobian	i.e. get gentoo-alt lead
[21:15] 	grobyou're now bsd lead, right spb- ?
[21:15] 	spb-	grobian: yar
[21:15] 	kito	I say no silly sub titles like op/strat
[21:15] 	kito	just have a lead.
[21:15] 	Flameeyes	kito++
[21:15] 	grobian	yep, for the record
[21:15] 	grobian	like spb is lead of gentoo-alt
[21:15] 	j4rg0n	fine, i meant in terms of what the lead *does*
[21:15] 	grobian	and thus of ppc-macos as well
[21:15] 	*	ferringb notes you may need to change that down the line btw
[21:15] 	spb-	kito: sometimes the distinction is useful
[21:15] 	ferringb	addition of an operational manager...
[21:16] 	kito	ferringb the titles orr?
[21:16] 	ferringb	kito: roles
[21:16] 	kito	ok
[21:16] 	ferringb	title is just fluff
[21:16] 	spb-	whe this is one of those times i'm not sure
[21:16] 	Flameeyes	well we need a lead that cares about having the project pages upda better than pvdabeel current time :P
[21:18] 	kito	well, don't want you spread too thin
[21:18] 	Flameeyes	you're all sure of what you're doing?
[21:18] 	j4rg0n	is it that much more work tho?
[21:18] 	grobian	Flameeyes, you're quite responsive at least
[21:19] 	j4rg0n	I mean, he already kinda does most of the stuff
[21:19] 	kito	spb- thoughts?
[21:19] 	spb-	kito: on?
[21:19] 	kito	spb- Flameeyes leading
[21:19] 	grobian	that is, Flameeyes leads you, and you lead Flameeyes :p
[21:19] 	spb-	there are worse candidates
[21:19] 	kito	right now, it mostly be coordination, but if things like dfly and opensolaris come about...
[21:19] 	spb-	grobian: yeah, that could  be a bit interesting
[21:19] 	grobian	spb-, that's why I asked you :D
[21:20] 	Flameeyes	kito, dfly goes under bsd anyway, it's 90% fbsd
[21:20] 	spb-	kito: dfly would come under me anyway ;p
[21:20] 	kito	ok
[21:0] 	*	ferringb notes one can also step down if it proves to much, btw.  that's one of the bits about leading past leaders have missed. ;)
[21:20] 	kito	ferringb indeed
[21:20] 	grobian	good point
[21:20] 	Flameeyes	right... so we'll try that, and hope? :P
[21:21] 	kito	well, as Flameeyes is definitely the most pro-active at this point, I say its a no-brainer
[21:21] 	gongloo	lets try to concentrate on how things are _now_ rather than what may or may not come along the line in terms of choosing lead, since the lead can be re-elected/changed/whatever later on if/when said things happen
[21:21] 	grobian	kito, did someone record that?
[21:21] 	spb-	Flameeyes: you want to do it?
[21:21] 	kito	grobian record what?
[21:21] 	j4rg0n	spb-: if he decides agt it, he can always step down...
[21:21] 	kito	grobian logging the meeting?
[21:21] 	Flameeyes	spb-, well i can at least try, and we'll see what happens
[21:21] 	spb-	j4rg0n: yeah, that he can
[21:21] 	grobian	kito, that he said he would try it
[21:21] 	Flameeyes	in cas as they said, i can ask for a new meeting :P
[21:22] 	kito	hehhe
[21:22] 	kito	ok
[21:22] 	spb-	ok, does macos want a subproject lead too?
[21:22] 	kito	Flameeyes is that a yes?
[21:22] 	Flameeyes	kito, i think yes at this point
[21:22] 	kito	ok.
[21:22] 	grobian	Flameeyes, thanks
[21:22] 	kito	Flameeyes++
[21:22] 	kito	now
[21:23] 	kito	do we want to get in to the macos fiasco now or later?
[21:23] 	grobian	ahem
[21:23] 	spb-	heh
[21:23] 	spb-	now! now!
[21:23] 	grobian	I think ts gonna take a lot of time
[21:23] 	kito	ok
[21:23] 	kito	might as well get it over with
[21:23] 	grobian	postpone it
[21:23] 	j4rg0n	i'd rather not postpone
[21:23] 	j4rg0n	that means more meetings
[21:24] 	kito	no, just later in this meeting
[21:24] 	grobian	I meant, first do the other agenda items
[21:24] 	kito	not later as in days
[21:24] 	gongloo	isn't that something pertinent only to gentoo-osx (IE doesn't belong in a gentoo-alt meeting)? not saying i don't want to discuss it, just saying we might be hijacking a meeting here
[21:24] 	j4rg0n	i may not be here later in this meeting
[21:24] 	j4rg0n	i have another meeting right after this one :/
[21:24] 	Flameeyes	well it was point ub-project organization ...
[21:24] 	kito	yup
[21:24] 	grobian	I vote againts doing it now
[21:24] 	*	kito has changed the topic to: 3) Sub-project organization 4) Project pages 5) Roadmap 6) Portage re-write 7) ${ARCH} usage 8) ebuild naming and categorization 9) Merging patches to tree 10) Repoman checks 11) Open Floor
[21:25] 	spb-	ok, agenda point 3
[21:25] 	gongloo	okie doke
[21:25] 	kito	hehe
[21:25] 	*	ferringb twitches at 6
[21:25] 	ferringb	plus side, I know when to run...
[21:25] 	grobian	lol
[21:25] 	kito	hahah
[21:25] 	gongloo	let's first clarify what exactly a lead should do...
[21:25] 	kito	ok, this is going to muddy agenda items
[21:26] 	spb-	ferringb: you do realise that we will be hijacking saviour for all sorts of unholy things
26] 	kito	but here we go...
[21:26] 	gongloo	anyone have any ideas? i obviously have a few of my own, and none of them involve telling people what to do, yet everyone seems to think they'd take commands from a lead
[21:26] 	spb-	gongloo: worth knowing, isn't it
[21:26] 	j4rg0n	spb-: aye
[21:26] 	grobian	spb-, what do you do as lead?
[21:26] 	kito	haha
[21:26] 	spb-	grobian: there are several possible answers to that ;)
[21:26] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, mainly, it should check what is being done, how is being done
[21:27] 	kito	agreed
[21:27] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: to what end?
[21:27] 	j4rg0n	but not direct what is being done? or yes?
[21:27] 	Flameeyes	grobian, he tells me that's ok to do whave in mind, lately ;P
[21:27] 	gongloo	hmmm
[21:27] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, depends if it's something that goes project-wise or single...
[21:27] 	grobian	Flameeyes, cool... he monitors you
[21:27] 	spb-	grobian: mainly making sure that the project devs aren't being stupid
[21:28] 	j4rg0n	spb-: in what sense?
[21:28] 	grobian	spb-, great
[21:28] 	spb-	and then talking to people like portage devs when we need strange things donoe
[21:28] 	gongloo	sounds like a very 'mommy' role
[21:28] 	spb-	done*
[21:28] 	kito	for instance, with Flameeyes as a curent alt-lead, if someone in either the macos or bsd team wants to do something global, it would need Flameeyes ok
[21:28] 	grobian	sounds good
[2] 	ferringb	spb-: you do realize I'm going to be doing unholy things with saviour myself, yes?
[21:28] 	grobian	at least someone who knows what happening overall
[21:29] 	spb-	ferringb: yep
[21:29] 	j4rg0n	that's agreeable since it affects multiple people's work
[21:29] 	kito	I would expect the same from the sub project leads
[21:29] 	spb-	grobian: needs to know what's happening overall inside and out of the project
[21:29] 	grobian	spb-, agreed
[21:29] 	spb-	ie how the stuff we're doing is going to interact with everything else
[21:29] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, basically a change in a side ebuild wouldn't usually require lead intervention... but if someone wants to change the way a system package is installed that is something that requires a bit of conation
[21:29] 	j4rg0n	kito: would you include your darwin efforts in the osx lead's realm?
[21:29] 	kito	j4rg0n yes
[21:30] 	j4rg0n	kito: oh
[21:30] 	kito	extremely incestous
[21:30] 	gongloo	i really think darwin should be separate (project-wise) from osx
[21:30] 	kito	or however thats spelled
[21:30] 	spb-	just not as outright evil
[21:30] 	kito	gongloo eventually yes
[21:30] 	grobian	the lead should keep up-to-date with all activities
[21:30] 	spb-	kito: incestuous?
[21:30] 	kito	spb- danke
[21:30] 	spb-	grobian: should be talking as much as doing imo
[21:31] 	ferringb	lead keeps things sane; both portage wise, and ensuring they're project isn't screwing things up tree wise
[21:31] 	ferringb	both coordination, and responsibility (imo)
[21:31]rringb	good enough definition?
[21:31] 	gongloo	should we have a gentoo-osx lead, i don't think global darwin-specific changes should be run by him/her, so that does apply now as opposed to eventually
[21:31] 	kito	ferringb yes
[21:31] 	spb-	ferringb: pretty much what i was thinking
[21:31] 	j4rg0n	ferringb: aye
[21:32] 	Flameeyes	ferringb, agreed
[21:32] 	gongloo	ferringb++
[21:32] 	grobian	ferringb, agreed
[21:32] 	*	gongloo notes that there's no 'dictating' or 'ordering' explicitly involved there
[21:32] 	ferringb	gongloo: yah, it's implicit. ;)
[21:32] 	kito	gongloo there certainly could be
[21:32] 	gongloo	could be, but not explicit
[21:32] 	kito	not explicit, implicit :p
[21:32] 	spb-	the dictating comes when the devs aren't doing the rightng on their own
[21:32] 	j4rg0n	kito: I think we need to agree that there shouldn't be unless it is required by one of ferringb's points above
[21:33] 	gongloo	lets put it this way: there could be, in the _worst case_
[21:33] 	gongloo	spb-: right
[21:33] 	kito	ok
[21:33] 	grobian	spb-, yep
[21:33] 	spb-	most of the time you should be letting things run along
[21:33] 	*	ferringb notes y'all probably should just let the lead nail down what's required/what works.
[21:33] 	Flameeyes	solving peacefully is obviously the first step, always
[21:33] 	gongloo	spb-: precisely
[21:33] 	j4rg0n	i also think that the lead can/should provsome direction to inactive devs that are inactive due to lack of self-motivation
[21:33] 	spb-	if you have to dictate stuff something's probably wrong
[21:33] 	ferringb	don't think alt has yet had a true lead, let Flameeyes figure out what's required/define the role as required (imo)
[21:33] 	Flameeyes	spb-, exactly
[21:33] 	gongloo	spb-: amen!
[21:34] 	gongloo	spb++
[21:34] 	j4rg0n	ferringb: I wasn't referring to Flameeyes's role, I was asking about what we want out of an OSX lead, if at all
[21:34] 	kito	my understanding of the current rules, all projects need 1) a project page 2) a lead
[21:34] 	j4rg0n	kito: think we can move on to that topic? (not to rush things)
[21:34] 	spb-	(probably hence why i don't appear to do anything in bsd) ;p
[21:3kito	yeah, if a restaurant manager is washing dishes, hes a bad manager
[21:34] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, i think basically is the same thing, just restricted to a smaller project
[21:34] 	*	j4rg0n rephrases that "move on to the topic of whether we need a lead and who it should be if needed"
[21:35] 	grobian	well
[21:35] 	grobian	who should it be then?
[21:35] 	kito	well, I think its clear the subprojects all need a lead
[21:35] 	gongloo	kito: agreed
[21:35] 	Flameeyes	i think a lead that cares of osx/darwin in particular is needed, at least to check that things work as they should
[21:36] 	kito	ruh roh, electrician is here
[21:36] 	kito	I might get cut off
[21:36] 	grobian	great
[21:36] 	j4	I think the lead also needs to have the respect of the wider dev community tho
[21:36] 	kito	Flameeyes agreed
[21:36] 	gongloo	i think that should we have a gentoo-osx lead that any darwinor, the important thing is to learn from the past errors and avoid repeating them
[21:39] 	ferringb	grobian: better question, what are the args for _not_ having an osx lead of some sort?
[21:39] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, respect comes with time, don't think so bad about the general dev community right now... we have our flames but at the end the problem is not so great...
[21:39] 	grobian	ferringb, I'm not against a lead per se.
[21:40] 	grobian	ferringb, I am just not comfortable with j4rg0n + gongloo as lead
[21:40] 	kito	ok, so to cut through the bullshit, the problem isn't whether we need a lead, its whos going to do it.
[21:40] 	grobian	exactly
[21:40] 	gongloo	i don't think that having a lead with which the team is uncomfortable is a good idea.
[21:40] 	grobian	but I was ifnored
[21:40] 	spb-	ok, who has nominations?
[21:40] 	kito	now, tbh, I see the macos project as dead at the moment
[21:40] 	Flameeyes	kito, would you be it?
[21:41] 	gongloo	spb-: j4 and i nominated ourselves as co-lead candidates
[21:41] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: I would be dead set against kito
[21:41] 	j4rg0n	nothing personal against kito
[21:41] 	kito	for macos to continue, it needs to be done from the bottom up, only this time , correctly
[21:41] 	j4rg0n	for reasons cited above
[21:41] 	grobian	kito said he doesn't want to be it
[21:41] 	spb-	what kito said
[21:41] 	spb-	current g/osx is a mess
[21:41] 	grobian	yes
[21:41] 	j4rg0n	entirely agreed
[21:41] 	gongloon
[21:41] 	kito	ferringb had the drastic proposal of dropping the ppc-macos keyword entirely
[21:41] 	Flameeyes	so what about a co-leading of kito and one between j4rg0n and gongloo? so that we can mediate the thing?
[21:41] 	spb-	and can't have been expected to be anything else given how it started
[21:42] 	kito	and I would agree
[21:42] 	spb-	kito: take it out into an overlay until it works
[21:42] 	Flameeyes	kito, about keywords i'd say to wait 6-7
[21:42] 	kito	6-7?
[21:42] 	spb-	seconds
[21:42] 	kito	spb- already in the works
[21:42] 	Flameeyes	point 6 and point 7
[21:42] 	kito	yeah
[21:42] 	grobian	yes
[21:42] 	Flameeyes	portage re-write and ${ARCH} handling
[21:42] 	kito	lets wait to cover that
[21:42] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: I don't think wed a lead for teams of 2 people
[21:42] 	j4rg0n	which is what we would be if we split it up like that
[21:43] 	grobian	current active base is 2, and tomorrow hopefully 4 again
[21:43] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, i never said to split up, i said to co-leading
[21:43] 	kito	My main opposition to j4rg0n/gongloo leading is 1) the direction 2) the co-lead concept
[21:43] 	kito	I don't want to continue the current path
[21:43] 	ferringb	*cough*
[21:43] 	kito	ignoring the inherent borkenness
[21:43] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: I don't think that would work...
[21:43] 	gongloo	kito: who said anything about continuing along the current path?
[21:43] 	ferringb	why not get the intended path down for all to know, then decide who will handle it?
[21:44] 	spb-	what ferringb sai1:44] 	*	Flameeyes notes that the general path of g/osx, g/darwin, g/bsd should be decided in a single shot
[21:44] 	kito	Flameeyes agreed.
[21:44] 	j4rg0n	kito: I think it's unfair of you to say that our direction would be the current direction
[21:44n: into _what_ is the point I'm making
[21:45] 	Flameeyes	grobian, the general "external" directions are the one from g/alt at the end and should be discussed later (see 5)
[21:45] 	spb-	grobian: so someone from outside osx?
[21:45] 	j4rg0n	kito: I proposed immediate fixes for what was inherently broken. I think it's important to get what's currently available semi-working before moving on to long-term goals
[21:45] 	kito	j4rg0n thats where I disagree
[21:45] 	*	gongloo doesn't buy into this 'leader from above' stuff
[21:45] 	*	j4rg0n makes a salad dressing run
[21:45] 	kito	whats currently available is broken. It can't be fixed without polutting the tree more
[21:45] 	j4rg0n	or not, line's too long
[21:46] 	spb-	kito++
[21:46] 	grobian	kito and I agree here
[21:46] 	j4rg0n	on the other hand, I don't think we should just remove support for something once it's been released
[21:46] 	j4rg0n	it's not kind to the user base
[21:46] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, nobody said to remove support, afaics
[21:46] 	gongloo	kito: eorate on your 'solution' then...
[21:46] 	ferringb	j4rgon: remove support once a replacement is ready
[21:46] 	spb-	j4rg0n: if it compromises the tree then kill it
[21:46] 	Flameeyes	moving to an overlay is not "remove support" at the end
[21:47] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: just clarifying
[21:47] 	spb-	or at least move it elsewhere
[21:47] 	kito	gongloo my solution is what I already propsed on the ML
[21:47] 	grobian	ferringb, what is indeed a good discussion to have separately I thinkg
[21:47] 	gongloo	kito: overlay...?
[21:47] 	kito	gongloo 1) work on portage prefix support 2) overlay
[21:47] 	kito	yes
[21:47] 	gongloo	okay
[21:47] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, i think nobody is to remove everything without having a "second way"
[21:47] 	gongloo	i don't see that as mutually exclusive with what we currently have
[21:47] 	ferringb	grobian: question of resources
[21:47] 	gongso that shouldn't be a problem
[21:47] 	ferringb	s:grobian:gongoloo:
[21:48] 	j4rg0n	kito: I think the team has organizational problems that need to be worked out before we can get _anything_ done
[21:48] 	grobian	j4rg0n, depends
[21:48] 	gongloo	j4rg0n: exactly. i think that we need to work out our path-that-we-take-agnostic problems in addition to the problems dependant on the path we choose to take
[21:48] 	j4rg0n	we have developers doing nothing just from lack of direction, we also have no place where we collect team-wide decisions
[21:49] 	spb-	ok, so
[21:49] 	gongloo	and i think that elections of a lead shouldn't really depend on what path we take
[21:49] 	j4rg0n	so we discuss things over and over again for lack of writing them down
[21:49]ameeyes	j4rg0n, that is what gentoo/alt is for at the end
[21:49] 	spb-	who wants to take on the osx project and make it work?
[21:49] 	grobian	make it work in which way?
[21:49] 	grobian	a.k.a. ferringb 's question
[21:49] 	spb-	any way necessary
[21:49] 	j4rg0n	I would vote for gongloo
[21:49] 	spb-	decide what's going to be done
[21:50] 	spb-	device who's going to do it
[21:50] 	gongloo	i don't want to nominate myself if it involves the image of lead that grobian seems to have
[21:50] 	spb-	convince everyone that this is the right idea, and change if not
[21:50] 	gongloo	(the dictator)
[21:50] 	Flameeyes	i'd say to take j4rg0n and kito (that have different views) and then see next points about general g/alt organization and then discuss in ano meeting what macos is going to do
[21:50] 	grobian	then kito has currently the best view on the whole osx stuff
[21:50] 	gongloo	i still hold myself open for the job description that j4 and i gave for a lead on the ML
[21:50] 	gongloo	(in terms of the immediate tasks at hand)
[21:50] 	j4rg0n	grobian: not the best, the best in your opinion
[21:50] 	spb-	personally i'm with kito on what osx needs in genearl
[21:50] 	spb-	general
[21:50] 	j4rg0n	grobian: please note that opinions differ
[21:50] 	gongloo	and the job description as put forth by ferringb earlier in this chat
[21:51] 	*	ferringb notes it's not a 'job description'
[21:51] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, that's why i'm saying to take the opinions and find a mediation ...
[21:51] 	gongloo	spb-: i am too
[21:51] 	ferringb	it's the poor schmuck who is going to get the shit, and keep things going forward
[21:51] 	grobian	j4rg0n, k, sure.  but that's just my opinion
[21:51] 	gongloo	ferringb: yup. but it's something that needs to be done, unfortunately.
[21:51] 	ferringb	as I stated, figure out where 'forward' points at and consider your options.
[21:51] 	gongloo	s/job description/task list
[21:51] 	spb-	forward for g/osx points at starting over
[21:52] 	Flameeyes	let's talk another time on what g/osx should do
[21:52] 	Flameeyes	we should delineate a general roadmap for g/alt before
[21:52] 	*	ferringb agrees with Flameey[21:52] 	grobian	ok, simple question, do kito and j4r0n want to be lead?
[21:53] 	Flameeyes	it's pointless to talk about "dropping ppc-macos keyword" when we should talk about ALL the alt keywords, not just that one, before
[21:53] 	j4rg0n	I think kito+j4rg0n lead is even more flawed than gongloo+j4rg0n lead. at least in the latter, we live together and can talk face to face to coordinate opinions
[21:53] 	j4rg0n	grobian: so to directly answer your question, no
[21:53] 	grobian	I take that as a no
[21:53] 	*	spb- is thinking that in a project like that co-leading isn't going to work anyhow
[21:54] 	gongloo	spb-: please explain...
[21:54] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, and i don't think that two co-leads with the same view have a sense anyway, as that would bposing a direction, but then... maybe is better moving on in the general view and THEN decide what to do with g/osx (so the lead should decide what to do based on that)
[21:54] 	grobian	j4rg0n, the face2face communication is only a bad thing
[21:54] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: what two people have the same view in this room?
[21:54] 	gongloo	lol
[21:55] 	gongloo	grobian: uh... no? how so?
[21:55] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: I don't mean to say I _agree_ with gongloo all or most of the time
[21:55] 	spb-	gongloo: it's one of those cases where what you're trying to do is so fscking weird and generally divisive that at some point you're going to need to come down to one person deciding where it's going to go
[21:55] 	gongloo	spb-: that's what rock paper scissors is  :-P
[21:55] 	Flameeyes	let's clear up the general view then..
[21:55] 	j4rg0n	okay, lets move on. this is getting no where
[21:55] 	j4rg0n	and i need salad dressing
[21:55] 	j4rg0n	so i'll brb
[21:55] 	gongloo	seriously, though... i haven't yet found a case where j4 and i haven't been able to agree on something. we've worked together for years
[21:56] 	grobian	gongloo, because noone else but you two can follow those discussions
[21:56] 	Flameeyes	after g/alt is organized in some way, we can talk about organizing g/osx
[21:56] 	j4rg0n	bleh. long lines suck
[21:56] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: agreed!
[21:56] 	gongloo	so, next point?
[21:57] 	grobian	kito, you're still with us somehow?
[21:57] 	gongloo	grobian: don't think so, sadly :/
[21:57] 	Flameeyes	4oject pages: i hope most of you seen the tech notes of g/*bsd, with practices to handle situations that are common with g/bsd projects.. but many of them are common with g/osx,g/darwin, too. and g/alt in general
[21:57] 	j4rg0n	I think he said the electrician came
[21:57] 	gongloo	grobian: he said something about cutting out
[21:58] 	grobian	gongloo, he's just busy working I guess
[21:58] 	Flameeyes	we should probably start adding content to the g/alt page with general notes about portability
[21:58] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: such as?
[21:58] 	grobian	cp -a
[21:58] 	grobian	like that?
[21:58] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, such as enewuser, that should not be called with /bin/false, cp -a as grobian said, and nls libraries handling
[21:58] 	j4rg0n	ah, agreed
[21:58ongloo	somehow, i think that sort of thing should actually be in the gentoo developer handbook
[21:58] 	*	ferringb <-- back in a few (phone)
[21:58] 	j4rg0n	gongloo: that is a good point...
[21:59] 	grobian	‚Ä¢ .so.4 vs. .4.dylib
[21:59] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, agreed, but we must delinate them before, right now there's no written stuff about that
[21:59] 	gongloo	i mean... developers should have a _centralized_ collection of docs on what to do and what to avoid, etc.
[21:59] 	Flameeyes	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/gentoo-alt/bsd/maintnotes.xml this is what we have for bsd right now
[21:59] 	j4rg0n	how about collecting them on the g/alt page and then submitting for dev handbook when we've got a reasonable list
[21:59] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: any reashat isn't already in the handbook?
[21:59] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, exactly what i was thinking of
[21:59] 	j4rg0n	otherwise we'll keep having to fix other people's mistakes...
[22:00] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, because they are not consistent yet
[22:00] 	gongloo	good reason
[22:00] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, before putting stuff in handbook it should be generally discussed and agreed
[22:00] 	grobian	yeah
[22:00] 	gongloo	agreed
[22:00] 	spb-	conclusion: someone write a non-linux compat section for the devmanual
[22:00] 	Flameeyes	it's useless to put things there that then goes obsoleted
[22:00] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: of course. I'm not sure there's much to agree on with cp -a tho :p
[22:00] 	Flameeyes	spb-, that would be great, after we collected some of that :P
[22:	j4rg0n	brb
[22:00] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, well that's just a side problem :P
[22:00] 	gongloo	(she just ran off to the line -- got short for a moment)
[22:01] 	spb-	what needs collecting? "this works on {gnu,linux} and not elsewhere"
[22:01] 	Flameeyes	spb-, solutions
[22:01] 	grobian	yep
[22:01] 	grobian	maybe references to your eclass?
[22:01] 	gongloo	okay, so let's revise what spb said:
[22:01] 	spb-	Flameeyes: then put a note in saying "this is a probelm. we're working on it"
[22:01] 	Flameeyes	i can (later today) restructure the maintnotes to get it generical to gentoo/alt to have something to work on
[22:01] 	gongloo	solution: someone needs to write a compat section for the handbo] 	gongloo	so, next topic?
[22:04] 	Flameeyes	grobian, was to you that i said to collect notes about osx, right? :P
[22:04] 	grobian	yep, I got a few collected
[22:04] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, i think we can do 5-6-7 in a row if ferringb is here
[22:04] 	grobian	recap: Flameeyes you will touch up the project pages
[22:04] 	j4rg0n	woah
[22:04] 	Flameeyes	grobian, good, you know guidexml, or need a guidexmlifier? :P
[22:04] 	j4rg0n	wait a second
[22:05] 	j4rg0n	hold up
[22:05] 	grobian	XMHELL
[22:05] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, yeah?
[22:05] 	gongloo	i happen to like XML
[22:05] 	j4rg0n	grobian: you're collecting notes about osx?
[22:05] 	gongloo	*ducks*
[22:05] 	grobian	j4rg0n, yeah, in my stickies
[22:05] 	gongloo	(really, i do)
[22:05] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, notes like "-static" doesn't work, i think
[22:05] 	gongloo	okie doke
[22:05] 	j4rg0n	oh okay
[22:05] 	grobian	j4rg0n, yeah, I actually *do* something
[22:06] 	j4rg0n	grobian: excuse me
[22:06] 	j4rg0n	grobian: you have no fscking clue what i do
[22:06] 	gongloo	grobianou're probably the best candidate for that, sicne you see the most errors out of all of this
[22:06] 	j4rg0n	so don't pretend you do
[22:06] 	j4rg0n	just because I don't spend all day on the buglist doesn't mean i don't do anything
[22:06] 	gongloo	grobian: i think that was out of line
[22:06] 	grobian	*cough*
[22:06] 	gongloo	anyways
[22:06] 	gongloo	moving along
[22:06] 	Flameeyes	little timeout for 10 minutes if you can, that i go looking for somethign to eat :P
[22:07] 	grobian	good
[22:07] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: I won't be here in another 20
[22:07] 	gongloo	allright, all back in 10 mins then!
[22:07] 	gongloo	but i gotta leave in 20
[22:09] 	Flameeyes	i'm back
[22:10] 	grobian	that was only 2 minutes
[22:10] 	Flameeyes	ok then, 5-6-7
[22:10] 	Flameeyes	grobian, i did it fast as j4rg0n and gongloo have to go
[22:10] 	j4rg0n	gongloo went somewhere
[22:10] -	5) roadmap
[22:10] 	j4rg0n	i'll give him a call if there's anything important
[22:10] 	spb-	what does that mean in context ?
[22:11] 	grobian	is ferringb yet unphoned?
[22:11] 	j4rg0n	spb-: me or "roadmap"?
[22:11] 	Flameeyes	what we want g/alt to be? a generic "portage on other arches", or "Gentoo on other arches"... the difference is quite important to select what to do... i'm for a bit of both
[22:11] 	spb-	Flameeyes: anything that's not gnu/linux
[22:11] 	gongloo	back
[22:11] 	Flameeyes	spb-, point is, something like gentoo/aix (it's actually being done) is something that goes there?
[22:11] 	spb-	yes
[22:11] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: thanks, that's considerate of you :)
[22:12] 	Flameeyes	in that case, i think we should be able to find quite a feople that would like to work on the alternate prefix thing, so that can be done in less time... without compromising quality, of course
[22:12] 	grobian	yep
[22:12] 	spb-	alternate prefix support is hard
[22:12] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, well this is the important thing at the end :) don't want to procrastinate it
[22:12] 	spb-	though i'm sure we all know this
[22:12] 	grobian	ferringb, was working with kito on it
[22:12] 	spb-	and it needs to be done properly
[22:13] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: amen
[22:13] 	j4rg0n	spb-: hard, but not complete </corny joke>
[22:13] 	Flameeyes	spb-, yeah it's hard, but not impossible, i'm not for a "magic" thing like pathspec, or for partial solutions
[22:13] 	gongloo	j4rg0n: lol
[22:13] 	gongloo	(i got it)
[22:13] 	gongloo	( i'm a supernerd)
[22:13] 	spb-	np-?
[22:13] 	Flameeyes	what we need is to start something *public*, a task for gentoo/alt that would list the devs working on that
[22:13] 	j4rg0n	spb-: yes
[22:14] 	spb-	good
[22:14] 	Flameeyes	and something that people can actually see the progress of, and collaborate, and give an hand to
[22:14] 	grobian	docs!
[22:14] 	grobian	:)
[22:15] 	gongloo	one of the things j4 and I had listed as things that we would do as leads is to maintain a page listing what every member of the project is doing, more or less, at the moment
[22:15] 	Flameeyes	right we need docs, pages that tells what is actually being done... i think gentoo-alt can be considered a hub for this task
[22:15] 	gongloo	i think something like that g/alt-wide would be great
[22:15] 	ferringb	back...
[22:15] 	gongloomeeyes: might be good to read the proposal that j4+I had sent out on -osx@ a while back
[22:16] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: i can get you a link if you like
[22:16] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, see the bsd pages how are organized right now, with the different task with even people not in the actual project when it's the case (fex chris helps with doc)
[22:16] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: will do
[22:16] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, mind sending a copy to gentoo-alt as soon as we have the ml?
[22:16] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: sure
[22:17] 	Flameeyes	ok so we must say that we don't want to limit the solutions to a completely portage-handled system nor to a only partially handled system
[22:17] 	ferringb	Flameeyes: might be joi in late, but clarify the "non completely portage-handled system"
[22:17] 	Flameeyes	i think this would be something that involves macos project in its entirely, while *bsd are completely handled
[22:18] 	ferringb	talking about secondary vs primary pkg manager?
[22:18] 	grobian	well... I think it comes close to what I would call portage on fedora core 4 personal edition
[22:18] 	Flameeyes	ferringb, no, not about secondary pkg manager
[22:18] 	Flameeyes	ports on fbsd are primary package manager, but they don't mess up the system, so the /usr/local "crazyness"
[22:18] 	spb-	alternate prefix == secondary package manager
[22:18] 	grobian	yep
[22:19] 	Flameeyes	spb-, not exactly the same at the end
[22:19] 	gongloo	spb-: correction. alternate prefix ie solution to the secondary package manager problem
[22:19] 	spb-	pretty much
[22:19] 	spb-	gongloo: as far as i'm concerned if portage is installing into an alternate prefix it's because it's the secondary package manager
[22:19] 	ferringb	portage in / prefix == secondary package manager, since it can be made to know of osx's pkg manager, but not the other way around.
[22:19] 	gongloo	yes, but the converse isn't true
[22:20] 	gongloo	what ferringb said
[22:20] 	spb-	there are possible alternative solutions
[22:20] 	spb-	but they're ugly as fuck
[22:20] 	ferringb	heh
[22:20] 	gongloo	spb-: exactly
[22:20] 	gongloo	but theyneed to be recognized as such :-P
[22:20] 	gongloo	so about this prefixing stuff
[22:20] 	gongloo	ferringb: status update?
[22:20] 	ferringb	gongloo: err... of what.  saviour?  eapi work?
[22:20] 	Flameeyes	ferringb, altenrate prefix
[22:20] 	gongloo	ferringb: has anything changed in the 6 weeks we haven't talked?
[22:21] 	grobian	then it's more or less writing a small paper on the possible solutions and their pro's and cons
[22:21] 	Flameeyes	grobian, yeah that would be great
[22:21] 	gongloo	hasn't that already been done?
[22:21] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, how much time ago?
[22:21] 	ferringb	what grobian said.  alt prefix can be implemented in an EAPI version, although it *should* be strictly a global offset (installing to /sw fex)
[22:21] 	gongloo	(the portage as a secondary package manager thread on -dev)
[22:22] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: ummm months?
[22:22] 	Flameeyes	i think g/fbsd has contributed to a few changes in the current enviornment, re-considering the solutions now is not pointless
[22:22] 	grobian	Flameeyes, http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/27569
[22:22] 	gongloo	grobian: thank you :)
[22:22] 	grobian	it might be condensed a bit
[22:23] 	ferringb	that thread isn't exactly perfect.
[22:23] 	ferringb	two phases to any prefix implementation (from where I sit)
[22:23] 	ferringb	global prefix swiveling.  installing *everything* to /sw
[22:23] 	grobian	yuck... fink
[22:23] 	gongloo	s:/sw:/opt/gentoo:, then
[22:	ferringb	the $HOME crap that that thread broke down into is based off of prefix swiveling, and *should* not be released alongside global prefix swiveling
[22:24] 	ferringb	$PREFIX, the actual location will be user config crap.
[22:24] 	gongloo	ferringb: completely agreed. that would _totally_ speed up the implementation of prefix swiveling in portage, no?
[22:24] 	*	ferringb notes kito being back would be a good thing.
[22:24] 	j4rg0n	we've got to go in 5 anyways...
[22:24] 	spb-	ok, i shall be disappearing shortly
[22:24] 	ferringb	gongloo: it's a hack, somewhat.  originally I wanted just global slipped in, it's easier, and tests the waters
[22:24] 	spb-	anyone object ?
[22:25] 	ferringb	sliding the other shite in makes it harder to get the corsics right.
[22:25] 	Flameeyes	ok step over the prefix thing, we should be able to discuss that on gentoo-alt later in case
[22:25] 	Flameeyes	as that's an internal thing, just state it's not "abandoned" project
[22:25] 	gongloo	ferringb: okay, so we have a global static (non-configurable) prefix, then? (just trying to make sure i understand you correctly)
[22:25] 	gongloo	*nod*
[22:25] 	spb-	i'll take that as a no
[22:25] 	*	spb- steps out
[22:25] 	ferringb	gongloo: that's preferred first step.
[22:25] 	grobian	spb-, no, sorry
[22:26] 	gongloo	ferringb: agreed completely, again :)
[22:26] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: moving along, then?
[22:26] 	Flameeyes	6 portage rewrite was mainly about thssue i think, and the modularizing of platform-dependendant things like chflags and so on...
[22:26] 	Flameeyes	ferringb, status about this? how's savior going?
[22:26] 	j4rg0n	Flameeyes: perhaps since spb just left and kito's gone, and gongloo and I need to be leaving, we can reschedule the rest?
[22:26] 	j4rg0n	or do it on -alt or something?
[22:26] 	Flameeyes	j4rg0n, that makes sense...
[22:26] 	grobian	yeah
[22:27] 	ferringb	Flameeyes: usual "do work, stall out on a point, figure out point, do work", wash rinse repeat
[22:27] 	gongloo	i'm thinking a ML is mcy... my mistake, i guess
[22:29] 	Flameeyes	well my dinner is now ready, i think we can close here then, i'll update project pages and ask lcars for ml right after :)
[22:29] 	gongloo	awesome
[22:29] 	j4rg0n	grobian: okay, I misunderstood because of the ferringb bit then
[22:29] 	Flameeyes	gongloo, it is, but many times it's broken, i've blogged about that already i think :P
[22:29] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: thanks for everything thus far. looking forward to a great gentoo-alt under your lead :)
[22:30] 	gongloo	Flameeyes: i do follow your blog, though i must have missed that
[22:30] 	gongloo	anyhow
[22:30] 	gongloo	j4 and i gotta run
[22:30] 	grobian	j4rg0n, gongloo will you reopen your thread on -osx again?
[22:30] 	j4rg0n	we will reopen it on -alt
[22:30] 	grobian	today?
[22:30] 	gongloo	as per Flameeyes' request
[22:30] 	gongloo	:)
[22:30] 	gongloo	grobian: whenever gentoo-alt@g.o gets created, sure
[22:31] 	grobian	your absense thread
[22:31] 	gongloo	(plus the time it takes us to get around t it)
[22:31] 	gongloo	there are some replies we'll need to make to the things that went on since we were gone, i think
[22:31] 	gongloo	haven't gone through it all yet
[22:31] 	gongloo	we'll get around to it soon; lots is backed up in the mail logs, asyou might imagine
[22:32] 	grobian	hmmmm
[22:32] 	grobian	fortunately yes
[22:32] 	gongloo	?
[22:32] 	gongloo	anyhow
[22:32] 	gongloo	gotta run
[22:32] 	gongloo	take care all
[22:32] 	grobian	later
[22:32] 	j4rg0n	*out*
[22:32] 	gongloo	later
