20:08 <@karltk> Meeting is set. 
20:08 <@drobbins> hi
20:08 <@karltk> Oh, and if it wasn't known, I'm today's chair.
20:08 <@g2boojum> pauldv: I hope so!  *Grin*  drobbins@inventor.gentoo.org.
20:08 <@SwifT> karltk: aaaaah ;)
20:09 <@drobbins> I'm not too available atm
20:09 <@karltk> We have only two issues for today, so we may be finished in time for the nine o'clock news in continental europe (hurrah)
20:09 <@drobbins> is there anything on the agenda?
20:09 <@pauldv> the desktop lead vote and some portage points from karl
20:09 <@karltk> Yeah. Agenda item #1) is "desktop lead" by pauldv 
20:09 <@drobbins> ok
20:10 <@karltk> Agenda item #2) are some warm and fuzzy comments about app-portage by yours truly
20:10 <@karltk> I guess we should just start with #1.
20:10 <@karltk> pauldv?
20:10 <@pauldv> ok. Now we have the nominees we need to vote. As I didn't receive many votes and I think we might want to talk about it I think we should
20:11 <@pauldv> I don't know how exactly the procedure should be, but I guess that the votes and maybe some comments should be private
20:11 <@drobbins> just "talk about it"?
20:11 <@drobbins> the idea is that we are supposed to select a desktop manager?
20:11 -!- pvdabeel [~pvdabeel@tinfpc3.vub.ac.be] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:11 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o pvdabeel] by ChanServ
20:11 <@pvdabeel> hi
20:11 <@pauldv> well, preferably also vote for those who are there
20:11 <@pauldv> pvdabeel: hi
20:11 <@pauldv> drobbins: yes
20:11 <@drobbins> pauldv: any idea on how the voting is supposed to work?
20:12 <@drobbins> pvdabeel: hiya
20:12 -!- orangejello [~OrangeJel@user-2ivebns.dialup.mindspring.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
20:12 <@pauldv> drobbins: I think we first have some round of discussion on the strong/weak points of the candidates. Then we look at which candidates are acceptable, and then we make a ranking
20:12 <@drobbins> pauldv: and we are doing this in public?
20:12 <@pauldv> Although I'm open to another procedure
20:13 <@pauldv> drobbins: that is my question.
20:13 <@klieber> we did it in public last vote
20:13 <@klieber> for base TLP manager, iirc
20:13 <@drobbins> that was less political though.
20:13 <@drobbins> (imo)
20:13 <@pauldv> klieber: at that point there was no discussion
20:13 <@klieber> shouldn't we be consistent?
20:13 <@drobbins> klieber: we didn't have nominations last time, so I think it's different
20:13 <@pauldv> klieber: we should indeed get some policy
20:14 <@klieber> I've got no problems with keeping it public, but I don't particularly care one way or the other.  I'd just like it to be consistent.
20:14 <@drobbins> pauldv: how many candidates are there?
20:14 <@karltk> pauldv: for those of us living under a rock, could you quickly recap how the nomination was done, and who was nominated?
20:15 <@pauldv> anyway for all interested the nominees are in alphabetical order (foser, liquidx, spider, spyderous, tseng)
20:15 <@pauldv> karltk: I was just doing that
20:15 <@pauldv> drobbins: there are 5 candidates
20:15 <@drobbins> pauldv: what if we vote yay/nay on each nominee on whether we'd be ok with that person as a manager
20:15 <@drobbins> pauldv: then leave it up to the desktop tlp to pick a final choice?
20:16 <@pauldv> drobbins: the problem is that there as yet not really is a desktop tlp
20:16 <@drobbins> pauldv: hmmmm
20:16 <@drobbins> pauldv: there isn't any kind of desktop organization atm?
20:17 <@SwifT> aren't the developers on proj/en/desktop the "desktop people" ?
20:17 <@pauldv> not really, well tseng has worked on some initial work, but it is not full yet
20:18 <@drobbins> I'm tempted to suggest we don't nominate anyone until there is a person who is clearly organizing things?
20:18 <@drobbins> or are these people waiting for our "ok" to organize stuff?
20:18 <@SwifT> I hope not
20:18 <@drobbins> I doubt it
20:19 <@klieber> I thought the whole point of having a desktop TLP manager was so they could start organizing things...
20:19 <@pauldv> those are the people working with tseng on organizing some of the desktop herd organization
20:19 <@SwifT> is there a shared medium all desktop-involved ppl are on (gentoo-desktop@gentoo.org or something like that?)
20:19 <@seemant> yes there is
20:20 <@seemant> gentoo-desktop and gentoo-desktop-research are two of the related lists
20:20 <@pauldv> SwifT: gentoo-desktop is there and all desktop people are strongly encouraged to join
20:20 <@drobbins> klieber: presumably, these candidates were nominated by "desktop people"
20:20 <@pauldv> desktop-research is a subproject of desktop that is geared towards trying to find improvements on the desktop area
20:21 <@SwifT> okay, we're in a deadlock apparently
20:22 <@klieber> pauldv: didn't you at one point lay out a plan for sorting out the desktop TLP manager position?
20:22 <@pauldv> the return on the call for nominees what not big. Only two people outside management reacted
20:22 <@pauldv> klieber: yes. That involved voting. 
20:22 <@drobbins> pauldv: what did they propose, those two people?
20:22 <@klieber> ok, so why aren't we voting then?
20:22 <@drobbins> s/what/who/
20:23 <@pauldv> Is there any of the managers who would want to discuss the candidates before voting?
20:23 <@drobbins> klieber: the complaints about our original process was that "all the desktop people" should have some part in selecting the candidates
20:23 <@drobbins> klieber: I'm just wondering whether that really happened, or if it was just a gripe and then no one really cared.
20:24 <@SwifT> we can't know the answer to that...
20:24 <@pauldv> drobbins: well, There was actually noone to denominate anyone
20:24 <@drobbins> klieber: presumably, we're picking this manager to lead a group of people
20:25 <@SwifT> and to bring forward and defend a vision on the future of the desktop project based on the opinions of most/all members
20:25 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v Spider] by drobbins
20:25 <@pauldv> I don't think it is fair to say who nominated who, but I guess most people thought we would select a suitable person
20:26 <@karltk> side remark: a yes/no ballot between candidates is the mathematically worst way of voting when you have >2 candidates, so please bear that in mind when doing the actual voting (alternatives are: each voter rates the candidates 1-5, the regular sports cups of multiple rounds of voting, etc..)
20:26 <@drobbins> karltk: urm, I guess I should have asked you first
20:26 <@pauldv> SwifT: first of all to form a project and a group of people to do the desktop
20:26 <@drobbins> karltk: spider has something to say
20:26 <+Spider> OKay.
20:26 <@drobbins> Spider: hold on a sec
20:26 <@karltk> Spider: go ahead. 
20:26 <+Spider> drobbins: okay
20:27 <@drobbins> Spider: go ahead, just did a back-peddle and got an ok with karltk
20:27 <+Spider> We were asked to nominate people who the managers list were to vote on in silence, We couldn't know the election process, nor what requirements were for the managers to do the whole nomination. it made the whole process seem opaque and closed and there is little meaning to suggest somone then.
20:27 <+Spider> the whole process feels flawed. Its the "dark cabal" of management who decides who can be members of the management team.
20:28 <@klieber> Spider: if the desktop team was nominating them, how can management be the only people who are influencing the final decision?
20:28 <+Spider> ( for those who were around usenet in the older days know what the dark cabal is )
20:28 <@klieber> there is no cabal
20:29 <+Spider> klieber: Because it doesnt' matter who we nominate if management can also nomniate, if nominatees are in silence to privates, and the only ones who vote are the management.
20:29 <@drobbins> hrm
20:29 <@drobbins> I think the only concern among managers was really (hope this doesn't make waves) foser. He can be hard to get along with...
20:29 <@karltk> which just goes to underline an earlier question: the process needs to be completely open.
20:29 <@iggy> nothing will ever get done if we wait around for the 200 something devs to vote on every little thing we do
20:29 <@pauldv> further people were asked to give reasons why someone should become the lead and why not.
20:29 <@drobbins> as far as everyone else, I think the mgmt team seemed pretty ok with anyone.
20:29 <+Spider> since no matter what we do , the undisclosed list could just have decided already, and the nominees are only for show.
20:30 <@klieber> oh ffs
20:30 <@karltk> klieber: that's the sentiment. deal.
20:30 <@avenj> Spider: right, there's a vast conspiracy to appoint new managers
20:30 <+Spider> klieber: i'm just pointing out the flaws in the method chosen here.
20:30 <@klieber> karltk: no thanks.  it's completely invalid so I think I will choose to not deal.
20:31 <@pauldv> Spider: if there had been some discussion I think we would have incorporated it
20:31 <@drobbins> Spider: so basically, to the desktop people is seems like some kind of arbitrary meaningless game?
20:31 <@pauldv> Spider: discussion about the method was welcome too
20:31 <@drobbins> Spider: (participating)
20:31 <+Spider> drobbins: more or less that was the sentiment.
20:32 <@drobbins> hrm
20:32 <@SwifT> Spider: how come noone spoke up?
20:32 <@klieber> exactly
20:32 <+Spider> drobbins: The feel was that whoever was chosen couldn't be "politically incorrect" or whatnot.
20:32 <+Spider> SwifT: They did, see fosers comments on -dev about it
20:32 <@avenj> Spider: it has to be someone capable of working well with others
20:32 <@SwifT> I thought the -dev discussion was ended with a nice consensus
20:32 <+Spider> avenj: yes, But hopefully you get the geist of it. Management choses management. 
20:32 <@avenj> that's a big part of being in a management position
20:33 <@karltk> is the desktop project so small that it needs to be one person?
20:33 <+Spider> "so what" if you can nominate somone?
20:33 <@g2boojum> May I suggest that pauldv post the rationales for why the various nominees were nominated, allow discussion until the next meeting, and then the managers would vote at that point?
20:33 -!- pappy- [~pappy@smtp.gentoo.org] has left #gentoo-meetings []
20:33 <@pauldv> g2boojum: I feel it has been delayed for far too long allready. There should allready have been a manager 2 months ago
20:34 <@iggy> I've already voted, so...
20:34 <+Spider> Suggestions about this as to "what to do better"    :  Make sure the vote and discussion leading up to it is completely open.
20:34 <@SwifT> to all developers?
20:34 <@klieber> Spider: I agree that the vote should be open, but I don't agree that the discussion should be
20:34 <@drobbins> Spider: ok, my opinion is that anyone is fine, with the exception of foser, I don't have a vendetta against him but I think he would be really hard to work with
20:34 <@klieber> as it can cause unnecessary hurt feelings and embarassment for some folks
20:34 <@pauldv> Spider: is that what you really want? Do you really want to hear that I don't like developer X because some runin Y and that he sucks?
20:35 <@drobbins> Spider: he does do very good work though, afaik
20:35 <@drobbins> Spider: so if you guys want foser, I am not sure how to resolve that
20:35 <@drobbins> Spider: that doesn't mean it's impossible
20:36 <+Spider> drobbins: Heck , I dont think either foser or me are polite enough to deal with management over the long run
20:36 <@SwifT> argh.. I hate administration. Spider: would the desktop people react against a person if the person was voted on right now?
20:36 <+Spider> pauldv: Actually, I'd want that management couldn't choose management, but that part was left outside the management discussion. See how the gnome foundation works.
20:37 <@SwifT> 'cause I agree with pauldv that a manager should been elected long ago
20:37 <@pauldv> Don't forget that desktop is a lot more than only gnome and kde, or even X based apps. Sound applications are part of it too, so are games
20:37 <@karltk> SwifT: like: give a guy the keys and say "organize". check back in a few weeks, and if nothing happened, find another guy?;P
20:37 <+Spider> SwifT: Depends on who it is. I'd balk completely if it wasn't somone who's been along for a while and hasn't been doing builds and maintainance.
20:37 <@SwifT> Spider: for that we had the round in which people could denominate ppl...
20:37 <+Spider> SwifT: I dont want some *beep*pot who has big dreams about the visious future without realization how long something has been going on.
20:37 <@drobbins> Spider: yeah, I understand where you are coming from. I can't say I'd be thinking differently if I were in your shoes
20:38 <@drobbins> Spider: it's frustrating for it to come up now though
20:38 <+Spider> SwifT: No, You hadn't.  Thats what my complaint has been about
20:38 <@drobbins> but that's more of a timing thing
20:38 <@SwifT> can we then postpone this and propose a "better" nomination procedure? the desktop ppl don't need a "lead" atm I believe
20:38 <+Spider> drobbins: Who were we supposed to give it to? its only now that its up for discussion in the open again. We thought it was all decided in the closed down management list?
20:39 <@drobbins> Spider: pauldv
20:39  * karltk Spider I like your viewpoint:)
20:39 <@iggy> I think they do, there are people waiting to do stuff
20:39 <+Spider> drobbins: so far, all we knew it was decided and was only to be presented in the meeting.
20:39 <@avenj> Spider: so you didn't notice the posts to -core that said "nominate people here" and "denominate people here"?
20:39 <@pauldv> SwifT: almost nothing is happening at the moment and nothing will until there is a lead, but as we have done without we could continue for some time
20:40 <+Spider> avenj: *sigh*  once more. I saw both that and in -dev, But what I wanted to point out that no matter if you can nominate the cat, your pet mouse or your monitor mascot when you can't be around to see them voted for?
20:40 <@SwifT> please... last thing I want is a riot about political positions (hear that enough in Belgium already)
20:40 <@drobbins> hrm
20:40 <@klieber> so let's vote in the open then.  
20:40 <@drobbins> I think something we may need to consider are permanent managers and dev-elected managers
20:40 <@klieber> if that's the issue, that's easily solved.
20:40 <@drobbins> some nice balance
20:41 <@drobbins> but right now is not the time
20:41 <@pauldv> drobbins: I don't know how we would do that right now. I don't think having even more managers makes much sense
20:42 <@karltk> ok, so apparently aren't getting any closer on this subject, after 30mins of intense debating.
20:42 <+Spider> karltk: sorry for dropping the bomb on you :)
20:42 <@drobbins> Spider: thanks for presenting your opinion
20:42 <@karltk> do any of the manageres foresee a solution to this problem now, or should we send the managers back to their lists and move on?
20:42 <@pauldv> Spider: you are also more than welcome to work out a better procedure (just as I invited foser to do)
20:42 <@drobbins> Spider: of course, it's a bit of a bummer, but we need to know these things
20:42 <@seemant> if I may
20:43 <@drobbins> pauldv: seems like they "gave up" by that point
20:43 <+Spider> karltk: May I state something here about a suggested procedure?
20:43 <@pauldv> after seemant
20:43 <@seemant> can we invite the people involved in the desktop project (they know who they are, based on the TLP's description) to self-organise and get back to us with their preferences?
20:43 <@drobbins> seemant: I think the word "preference" is the thing that's killing this
20:44 <@drobbins> seemant: for the participants
20:44 <@seemant> preferences for leader, I mean
20:44 <@drobbins> I know.
20:44 <@drobbins> that's what I mean
20:44 <@seemant> if they have a list of, say 5 nominees -- they do the thing that karltk said
20:44 <@seemant> with the ranking
20:44 <@klieber> why not have the devs select the nominee and then the managers vote on those nominees (in the open)
20:44 <@seemant> find an overall, and then we know where everyone stands
20:44 <@pauldv> seemant: I don't think that works. What we could do is to have someone become temporary manager for say a month with the goal to collect all people to become members, and then organize a vote
20:44 <@seemant> I mean, my point is this
20:44 <@klieber> there has to be a balance between who the devs want and who the managers feel they can work with.
20:45 <@pauldv> klieber: that's what we did
20:45 <@drobbins> klieber: agreed
20:45 <@klieber> so why are we having all these problems then?
20:45 <@drobbins> klieber: one option is to have "open" tlps have dev-elected interim managers
20:45 <@klieber> that's what I thought we did, too
20:45 <@drobbins> klieber: say, interim for 3 months
20:45 <@seemant> well, apparently what was done was not perceived that way
20:45 <@seemant> and that is an issue, unfortunately
20:46 <@klieber> it's also an issue that nobody said anything until the last possible minute.
20:46 <@drobbins> hrm
20:46 <@klieber> if folks don't speak up, we can't fix anything.
20:46 <@drobbins> this raises lots of possibilities about improving things.
20:46 <@pauldv> klieber: after the deadline actually
20:46  * Spider coughs.
20:46 <@karltk> seemant: "my point is this" <-- you didn't finish
20:46 <@klieber> drobbins: I think the only thing that needs improving is the communication about the whole process and perhaps making it more open
20:47 <@drobbins> klieber: agreed, but you need to factor something in due to the fact that it seems that the majority felt totally disenfranchized :/
20:47 <@klieber> drobbins: otherwise, I feel that the stakeholders selecting nominees which are then voted on (in the open) by the managers is quite a fair balance
20:47 <@seemant> karltk: yes -- sorry -- my point was that productivity goes down if a manager is appointed
20:47 <@karltk> seemant: so what you're after is a project liason, not a manager?
20:47 <@seemant> ie, the desktop people who've been involved for any length of time know who's what and what's who
20:48 <@drobbins> klieber: it seems that the reverse -- managers selecting nominees and the devs voting -- might be more equitable.
20:48 <@seemant> they have their preference on who they might elect as a leader for the project
20:48 <@karltk> seemant: a go-between that keeps abreast of the desktop project, and reports back to mgmt?
20:48 <@seemant> hmm
20:48 <@drobbins> klieber: and also may fit in better with what we want to do. dunno.
20:48 <@klieber> drobbins: the devs know better who's best suited to be nominated.
20:48 <@pauldv> I wouldn't mind this procedure
20:49  * Spider puts his hand up.
20:49 <@drobbins> klieber: they also know better who to vote for :)
20:49 <@pauldv> Spider: what do you want to say?
20:49 <@drobbins> klieber: in a lot of cases
20:49 <@klieber> drobbins: I don't agree there
20:49 <@seemant> drobbins: that's my point
20:49 <@seemant> is there something inherently wrong with letting people decide their own project leads?
20:49 <+Spider> What about asking the dev's who's there for it to nominate themselves with a reason on why they'd want to take the role as desktop lead, and what they want to achieve with said role?
20:50 <@drobbins> seemant: I don't think so, as long as we have a balance of appointed and elected positions
20:50 <@klieber> seemant: yes, if the rest of the managers who work with them have no say in it.
20:50 <@klieber> s/work/have to work/
20:50 <+Spider> Together with a simple open election which is all inclusive, list those you vote for, the person with most votes gets the place?
20:50 <@seemant> klieber: what's the specific concern that the managers have no say about?
20:50 <@g2boojum> klieber: That could be worked around by allowing managers to fire somebody who fails to play well w/ others.
20:50 <+Spider> I fail to see really why management should be involved with the whole election process at all.
20:50 <@drobbins> klieber: we have to be careful about beating that drum, because it can easily be interpreted as us being a clique
20:51 <@SwifT> I hate to be anal about it, but letting non-involved people vote doesn't really sound "good" to me... but how are you going to define who is involved and who isn't?
20:51 <@klieber> Spider: because we have to work together as a team to make any progress on things.
20:51 <+Spider> Organizing, yes. Screening proposals, and voting for them?
20:51 <@klieber> yes, absolutely.
20:51 <@seemant> karltk: DarkSpecter has something to add I think
20:51 <@klieber> not screening, perhaps, but absolutely voting.
20:51 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v DarkSpecter] by karltk
20:52 <@karltk> DarkSpecter: yell:)
20:52 <@seemant> DS: tell them about yesterday
20:52 <+DarkSpecter> thx
20:52 <+DarkSpecter> isn't the way we did it yesterday the way it should be ? i mean the ppl involved elect someone as they should know best who's suited for the job. and should a majority of gentoo management object the elected manager the devs involved could simply present a 2nd choice
20:52 <@drobbins> maybe something to be considered is separating the concept of "team lead" from "team<->manager liaison"
20:52 <+DarkSpecter> background is that gentoo/ppc had a meeting yesterday to vote for a operational manager
20:52 <+Spider> DarkSpecter: That sounds like a good measure between "management choses management" and "public election" . 
20:53 <@seemant> karltk: DS said what I've been trying to :)
20:53 <@drobbins> DarkSpecter: I think the fear may be that if we go to 100% elected people, then some key people may get bumped from their manager positions.
20:53 <@SwifT> DarkSpecter: in that case you already had a list of who is involved in the PPC project... we don't have a clear definition of who is involved in desktop right now
20:53 <@klieber> the thing is, TLP managers are not just responsible for their own project.  they're also supposed to be responsible for establishing direction for Gentoo.
20:53 <@pauldv> DarkSpecter: it is a bit of a chicken and egg problem. We first need a team
20:53 <@drobbins> DarkSpecter: there are managers that *should* be appointed....
20:53 <@drobbins> DarkSpecter: so I think a balance of elected and appointed managers could work....
20:53 <@klieber> thus, a person needs to have more qualifications than just being good at their TLP before they should be a TLP manager IMO
20:53 <@karltk> seemant: he's bright:)
20:54 <+DarkSpecter> in our case it wasn't gentoo management who could have said no i don't want that guy but pieter as the only manager till then
20:54 <@drobbins> DarkSpecter: otherwise gentoo can degenerate into a popularity contest
20:55 <@drobbins> klieber: we may need to make a distinction
20:55 <+DarkSpecter> drobbins: imo it's not a popularity contest, it's just the those involved know best who actualy CAN do the job
20:55 <@pauldv> DarkSpecter: technically the gentoo-alt manager has the power. In this case that is pieter
20:55 <@klieber> drobbins: I thought that was what Operational vs. Strategic (or whatever we're calling it now) was
20:55 <@drobbins> DarkSpecter: just imo, there are several people on this project that should not have to "run for office"
20:55 <@drobbins> klieber: maybe we need to make that clearer, better defined.
20:55 <@klieber> sounds like it.
20:56 <@drobbins> klieber: maybe s/operational manager/team lead/
20:56 <@drobbins> and s/strategic manager/manager\/team representative/
20:56 <@drobbins> ?
20:56 <+DarkSpecter> drobbins: sure, but don't you think that other devs think the same, and therefor would never nominate such ppl for a management job ?
20:56 <@klieber> the issues I've heard identified here today that I agree are issues are that we need to keep things more open and there needs to be improved communication.
20:56 <@klieber> but most of the other things I think we already do, but folks may not know about or understand.
20:57 <@pauldv> The nature of toplevel projects is that they collect a number of teams together and aim to give them direction. This means that the desktop team itself might only be one or two people, but many people from the involved subprojects
20:59 -!- orangejello [~OrangeJel@user-2ivebns.dialup.mindspring.com] has quit [Client Quit]
20:59 <@karltk> we have one other small order for the day, so if anybody needs to leave soon, we should get on with it, and return to this afterwards. Unless of course somebody eyes a resolution to the matter shortly.
20:59 <+DarkSpecter> and imo these subprojects should come up with a manager they think they can work with and that can do the job
20:59 <@pauldv> during the normal course of events the manger should hardly have to be directly involved with a team like kde or gnome. The manager is more responsible for cross-team issues
20:59 <@drobbins> klieber: good idea
20:59 <@drobbins> I mean
20:59 <@drobbins> karltk: good idea
21:00  * Spider sighs.    Does this mean that management will discuss the election process among themselves, state a new "this is how it will be done"  and then leave the big impending doom feeling of  "theres no reason to object because they have decided and if I point out anything I'm getting num(management) against me in a flame? " 
21:00 <@drobbins> Spider: no
21:00 <+Spider> drobbins: thanks. 
21:01 <@drobbins> Spider: it means that this conversation could go on for another 2 hours
21:01 <@drobbins> Spider: so we might as well wrap up the other agenda item first, then come back to this
21:01 <+Spider> drobbins: Thats optimistic. :)
21:01 <@pauldv> ------------------------------------------------------ KARLTK has proposed to first discuss the other issue ----------------------------------
21:01 <@karltk> so, for the order, we're having an intermission to point #1
21:01 <@karltk> point #2: comments about app-portage
21:02 <@karltk> I'll start, genone will add suitable comments to make it entertaining:)
21:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v genone] by seemant
21:02 <@karltk> it appears that we've created a new subproject, named tools-portage, which administrates the packages in app-portage
21:03 <@karltk> our first order of the day is writing a _generally usable_ abstraction layer over the portage config files and the /var/db database, that is not already available through portageq
21:03 <@karltk> we have a slew of utils lying about, which hack, slash and mutilate the existing config files and misreads /var/db, so as to not be consistent with portage itself.
21:03 <@karltk> some is my own very fault, as they reside in gentoolkit (etcat, qpkg, to mention some)
21:04 -!- SwifT [~Sven@D5E06C0B.kabel.telenet.be] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Sorry, gotta leave... I'll catch up on the logs"]
21:04 <@karltk> second order of the day is to do some selective pruning. we don't need five half-working use flag editors. we need one really good one, with three modes: command line for cfengine scripting, curses, for ssh remote admin and X11 for hearing impaired (or whatever)
21:05 <@karltk> so we'll be looking at all the gentoo-specific tools in the tree, most of which has already been moved into app-portage, and throw away the seriously br0ken ones, and fix the rest to use the previously mentioned abstraction layer. 
21:06 <@karltk> I've talked this over somewhat with carpaski, so we're going to base everything off of 2.0.50, "ready for the future" and whatnot slogans we can come up with.
21:06 <@karltk> genone: anything to add?
21:07 <+genone> new tools will be written in python, bash should be avoided as much as possible
21:08 <+genone> also a few of the exisiting tools don't work with portage-2.0.50 due to API changes
21:08 <+DarkSpecter> will 2.0.50 be the first one with a defined stable api ?
21:09  * genone looks for carpaski
21:09 <+genone> hmm, not here
21:10 <+genone> I can't really say that, Nick makes the choices what goes in and what changes
21:11 -!- ciaranm [~ciaranm@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
21:11 <+DarkSpecter> all i want to know is IF things will change, additions are fine as long as the existing api doesn't change
21:12 <+DarkSpecter> guess i'll have to bug nick with that
21:14 <+genone> one question that is still open how the interaction between tools-portage and desktop research will be, e.g. who's finally responsible for the GUI tools
21:15 <@pauldv> genone: desktop research will not be responsible for long-term maintenance of anything. That is not what research is about
21:15 <@drobbins> genone: yay for hooking into what exists of the portage API
21:15 <@karltk> actually, the question is a bit more general than that.
21:16 <@karltk> when the tools-portage herd adopts a new package, are we supposed to be responsible for it, even if the upstream manager dies?
21:16 <@karltk> DarkSpecter: whatever nick decides, we will export a stable API
21:16 <@karltk> DarkSpecter: and maintain it for all our tools.
21:17 <+DarkSpecter> karltk: good to know
21:17 <@karltk> however, for all of this to work, people must notify _US_ of their gentoo-specific tools they cram into the tree
21:18 <@pauldv> karltk: These are gentoo projects. So we are upstream in many cases. In case it is an internal project there should be a team within the tools toplevel project to maintain it
21:18 <@karltk> we can't be expected to monitor the changelog page and pick up app-admin/c00lt00l from there:)
21:18 <+genone> pauldv: it's more about external stuff like kportage
21:18 <@karltk> pauldv: yes, that's why this is much more of a pressing matter.
21:19 <@karltk> pauldv: let's take two examples
21:19 <@karltk> pauldv: qpkg was written by vitaly when he was with us. he resigned, and I assumed maintainenance, then I had a leave of absence, and the baton was passed on.
21:19 -!- Aether [~aether@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
21:20 <@karltk> pauldv: now I have 20+ bugs about qpkg assigned to me, it's a mess, and nobody wants to touch it. Who is responsible to maintain it now? I guess I am since, it's in Gentoolkit? Okay enough, so I replace it.
21:20 <+DarkSpecter> well when hannes left he also said he won't maintain kportage anymore afaik, but nobody seemed to care
21:21 <@karltk> pauldv: next up: kportage. was originally written by an external maintainer, I guess it was popular, and it's ended up in app-portage. But the tools-portage herd, being all of me and genone, can't possibly retain maintainership of it. My only claim to KDE-fu is knowning the release manager of qt;P
21:22 <@karltk> I guess our point is that we'll be shedding some load by dropping non-maintained packages, and possibly even be more strict about what we want to put in. 
21:22 <@pauldv> karltk: that would be my first idea too
21:22 <@karltk> If we're not able to maintain our distro-specific tools _within_ the distro, then we should at least mark the projects as "dangerous to rely on"
21:24 <@pauldv> karltk: esp. be carefull what to include from external teams.
21:24 <@pauldv> karltk: then try to recruit teams for those tools that actually do add value. I think that 2 people per team is the absolute miminum
21:24 <@karltk> pauldv: with gentoolkit, I had the policy of only including stuff that I could personally maintain. 
21:25 <@karltk> pauldv: but with separate apps that seem really good, it's not always that easy to know. kportage was neat, but hanno lost interest.
21:26 <@karltk> anyway, those are some of the things we work on wrt the app-portage category. 
21:26 <@karltk> just a short briefing and status update. 
21:26 <@karltk> if there is any desire for it, the hostilities around the desktop lead may continue.
21:27 <@pauldv> I propose we open the floor so we can sling even more mud ;-)
21:28 <@pauldv> could someone with the power open the floor?
21:28  * DarkSpecter prepares his mudzooka
21:28 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by karltk
21:30 <@pauldv> is there any of the others who wants to add something?
21:31 <+genone> this silence is frightening
21:31 < ciaranm> i'm too scared to voice an opinion
21:31 <@klieber> ciaranm: somehow, I doubt that.
21:32 <@pauldv> ciaranm: you'd better be, I know where your house lives ;-)
21:32 <+Spider> Hm. I have something, that isn't completely related here to the discussions had
21:32 <@pauldv> Spider: shoot, it's better than silence
21:33 <+Spider> As people now know I've started to become annoying when it comes to QA issues, seemant, can you give an update on a QA project, time and constraints?
21:34 <@drobbins> meep
21:34 <@seemant> well, basically, Spider and foser and I have been talking about various issues dealing with QA and the best way to introduce QA to the project
21:34 <@seemant> sort of a QA infusion into every aspect of it
21:34 <@pauldv> Spider: I don't think annoying is the right word
21:34 <@seemant> we've come up with nothing solid yet, but I would like to be able to present something at the next meeting
21:35 <+Spider> pauldv: not yet.    You should see my list here at home. You'd be -scared- .
21:35 <+Spider> seemant:  okay. 
21:35 <+Spider> I've done an informal QA project here for a while, just buildtesting and others..
21:36 <+Spider> And to hash it out like this.   People, You should be -scared- .  You should look very sharply at things you maintain.  
21:37 <@pauldv> Spider: I hope that list is mostly auto-compiled
21:37  * g2boojum nominates Spider as qa lead...
21:37 <@drobbins> seemant: we also have the tinderbox thing working
21:37 <+Spider> pauldv: Both,  you've seen the result to -dev after a few hours of manual looking?  see the gtk/gtk2/gnome thing
21:37 <@karltk> seemant: where?
21:38 <@seemant> karltk: #gentoo-qa
21:38 <+DarkSpecter> [@voting-topic] well i already voiced my opinion but i can make it again, imo it's bad that management decides on new members, that may be a good way for a corporation but not for a oss project imo, devs involved should elect their lead/manager and management could/should have veto power
21:38 <+Spider> pauldv: over all our whole team lacks severely in the state of "boolean logic" . I've come to realize that 50% or so of our devs don't even grasp a nested IF statement.
21:39 <@klieber> DarkSpecter: I agree for something like a team lead.  I do not agree for something like a tlp manager.
21:39 <@klieber> so if we can draw a distinction there, then I'm all for it
21:39 <@pauldv> Spider: hmm. That is bad indeed
21:40 <+DarkSpecter> klieber: why ?
21:40 <@klieber> DarkSpecter: as I said earlier, TLP managers need to be more than just good at their specific TLP.  
21:40 <@klieber> because they work on establishing direction for gentoo as a whole
21:41 <+DarkSpecter> klieber: sure, but a TLP manager should also know what he's talking about and what the opinion of his subprojects is
21:41 <@klieber> DarkSpecter: that's why I suggested that the folks involved come up with a list of nominations and let the managers vote on it.  It's a crucial distinction, imo
21:41 <@drobbins> klieber: I think a solution is that we need to look into defining a board or boards (advisory boards)
21:42 <@drobbins> klieber: for "future direction of gentoo" stuff
21:42 <@pauldv> DarkSpecter: the main requirements for a TL manager is that he/she has good people skills. (s)he also needs to be respected. That's where the technical skills come in
21:42 <@klieber> drobbins: that's what the original purpose of the management team was to be.
21:42 <@drobbins> klieber: that would allow managers to be elected....
21:42 <@drobbins> klieber: yes, but right now there's not a distinction
21:42 <@klieber> I thought there was
21:42 <@drobbins> klieber: a "manager" (our definition) has a dual role
21:42 <@klieber> operational vs. strategic
21:43 <@drobbins> I think it needs to be better-defined.
21:43 <@klieber> it can be better defined without gutting it and starting over.
21:43 <@klieber> as i said earlier, I do think we need to improve communication and be more open about thing.s
21:44 <@klieber> that does not mean the entire process is flawed and needs a wide scale house cleaning
21:46 <@pauldv> klieber: the management is also a structure to allow the direction to be controlled and overseen. Only deciding is not enough
21:46 <@drobbins> klieber: not saying the entire process is flawed, but a shift in terminology may help
21:47 < Tester_> again? 
21:47 < Tester_> changing the structure all the time is quite confusing for non-experts ;)
21:47 <@klieber> I'm just leery of making wholesale changes to things when we haven't really even got going with the current way we do things.
21:48 <@pauldv> Tester_: it is confusing for anyone. I don't think we should change much. But changing accents and some terms might be an improvement
21:48 <+DarkSpecter> klieber: but maybe there's a reason why the current way isn't working
21:48 <@klieber> DarkSpecter: who says it isn't working?
21:49 <@klieber> DarkSpecter: certainly it can be improved -- everything can always stand improvement.  that doesn't mean it's broken, though.
21:49 <+DarkSpecter> klieber: bad wording on my side, was refering to your "we haven't really even got going with the current way we do things"
21:50 <@klieber> I'd also like to make sure that any changes that get made are made because the dev community as a whole (rather than one or two squeeky wheels) want change.
21:50 <@pauldv> DarkSpecter: that is mainly because things take time. And even more time as it is a global enterprise consisting of many people doing things in evening hours and with varying experience
21:51 <@pauldv> maybe a discussion on gentoo-dev@gentoo.org should be started about this
21:52 <+DarkSpecter> imo -core is better
21:52 <+Spider> pauldv: How do you sugest to make such a discussion happen without the impression that "oh, its up to management to decide anyhow, what does it matter if I speak about it" ? 
21:53 <+DarkSpecter> sure it would be better to involve users and go to -dev but then again these users would talk about their "ideals" which unfortunately aren't implementable in a working way most of the time
21:54 < Tester_> but gentoo definitely has an image problem with the clique image..
21:54 <@pauldv> DarkSpecter: -core is ok too, maybe better
21:54 <@klieber> so we want to discuss our problem with a clique image on a private mailing list.  nice.
21:54 <@klieber> I hope people realize there are reasons for keeping discussions private.
21:55 <@klieber> and remember those reasons when complaining about the same thing in the future.
21:55 <@pauldv> Spider: for one thing if there is no discussion there is no way that management can know the issues. Second gentoo WILL fail if the developers are not taken serious, so we'd better do that.
21:56 < Tester_> I'm not against keeping some things private.. but we should be careful about explaining stuff... like having the desktop lead not chosen by the desktop ppl is imho not very wise
21:56 <@pauldv> Spider: And third, I actually hope that the discussion will end up in something that management just needs to say yes too
21:56 <+Spider> pauldv:  true.
21:56 <+Spider> pauldv: though I hope you understand my (somewhat cynical)  view of the whole approach
21:56 <@klieber> Spider: I certainly don't.  
21:57 <@klieber> Spider: what reason have we given you to be cynical?
21:57 <@pauldv> Spider: I hope I do. 
21:57 <@klieber> "we" being Gentoo as a whole.
21:58 <+Spider> klieber: Right now?  Gentoo as a whole hasn't at all, I was cynical even before I joined Gentoo.  Management issues has over the past probably worked, but has a lot of image problem at least, and this makes it very hard to work with the concept.
22:01 <@pauldv> Spider: Before this the perceived problem was that daniel decided everything, I consider this an improvement.
22:01 <@pauldv> I must add that I'm not convinced about a fully democratic process
22:02 <@drobbins> I need to go eat lunch, but wanted to say
22:02 <@drobbins> for the management structure, change is a known part of the process
22:02 <@drobbins> that part is built-in, since we need to move things under a NFP
22:02 <@pauldv> drobbins: have a nice lunch. I should probably go to sleep soon, so see you tomorow
22:03 <@drobbins> might as well learn from this and ensure that as things change, they get better for all
22:03 <@drobbins> pauldv: bye :)
22:03 <@pauldv> Let me add: it's all about the process, not about the result ;-)
22:05 < Tester_> the public image is still very much "drobbins and his friends decide everything"......
22:06 <+DarkSpecter> one more reason to not have management decide on itS members
22:06 <@pauldv> Tester_: basically devs decide with their feet. If they want something they do it. I have hardly seen a case where a manager would stop someone from doing it
22:07 < Tester_> from the inside I see that..
22:07 < Tester_> I mean that's how its seen..
22:07 <@drobbins> pauldv: I think we need some balance -- democracy without the potential to turn into a marxist experiment
22:07 <@pauldv> drobbins: what would not be a bad idea is a parliament with balanced powers
22:08 <@drobbins> pauldv: the thing is that there is an unequal commitment to gentoo
22:08 <@drobbins> there are certain people who do it what seems like full-time and make a big difference for the project
22:08 <@drobbins> these peoples' efforts and commitment need to be reflected and respected
22:09 <@drobbins> at the same time, you want project leads to enjoy popular support
22:10 <@drobbins> and be the de facto leaders
22:12 <@pauldv> agreed
22:13 <+Spider> pauldv: I must add that I've never believed in a complete democracy either, it requires too much of its participants.   And its "better" but far from "good" or even "ok" 
22:15 <@pauldv> ok. I leave you now. I'd hope that people log the whole rest of the discussion, so I can read it tomorrow
22:15 -!- pauldv [~pauldv@gt0416.uvt.nl] has quit [""See you later""]
22:16 <@drobbins> Tester_: and that perception can negatively affect who involves themselves in gentoo development
22:17 <+Spider> true.
22:17 < Tester_> but that very often comes from debian oriented people
22:17 < Tester_> so I dont know how much credit it should be given
22:18 <+Spider> Tester_: the debian model hasn't held up to time either.
22:18 <+Spider> Tester_: so the argument "this is how debian does it" is usually a good warning signal.
22:18 <@drobbins> Spider: the major problem is that the managers are too busy doing gentoo work to improve the structure
22:18 < Tester_> I'm not a debian dev either ;)
22:19 <@drobbins> Spider: myself included
22:19 <+Spider> drobbins: it could be that, and it could also be that the managers haven't stopped to consider how it looks from "the other side" 
22:20 <@drobbins> Spider: well I think we are hoping that people are also respective of the time commitments all of us are making
22:20 <@drobbins> Spider: and are understanding
22:21 <@drobbins> Spider: we have people of varying maturity levels on this project -- some would rather grumble quietly among themselves
22:21 <+Spider> drobbins: perhaps, but theres a lot to be said of actaully letting the people know what happens and what work you're doing.
22:22 <+Spider> drobbins: of course, thats the case in all such projects.
22:23 -!- genone [~genone@dsl-213-023-246-110.arcor-ip.net] has quit ["bed calls"]
22:23 -!- lisa [~lisa@smtp.gentoo.org] has left #gentoo-meetings ["adjø"]
22:24 <@drobbins> Spider: I think we've improved on the communication front (look at the project pages)
22:24 <@drobbins> Spider: also, moving status updates to -core
22:24 <@drobbins> one of the problems is
22:25 <+Spider> drobbins: lots could be done there, strikeout oneliners of "this happened here" for all projects merged to a single page (changelog if you want it)  is one idea.
22:25 <+Spider> a lot of devs want to keep to their small lot because its what they know
22:25 <@drobbins> among this type of free software geek crowd, it's hard to figure out what are valid complaints and what is "the whining factor"
22:26 <@drobbins> I mean, we do have pauldv
22:26  * Spider grins and arms his nerf-gun.    "call me whiner and I'll shoot you with a rubber-dart" 
22:26 <@drobbins> I think it's been made really clear that if any dev has a problem with the management structure, talk to pauldv and he will raise the issue at a manager's meeting
22:26 <@drobbins> and get it addressed
22:27 <@drobbins> we also have devrel to help out with issues... my question is are these avenues being pursued
22:27 <@drobbins> if not, why not
22:27 <+Spider> I think most of that boils down to "people are lazy" 
22:28 <+Spider> if it isn't obvious who to contact, They rather shut up and grumble than find somone.
22:29 <@drobbins> ok
22:29 <@drobbins> some of that is understandable
22:29 <+Spider> the same goes for all other parts of "Gentoo contact" 
22:30 <+Spider> if bugzilla isn't easy and accessible, we won't get notified
22:30  * DarkSpecter always blames seemant ;)
22:30 <+Spider> If documentation isn't pushed up and slapped in a users face, he won't read it but go ask somone, or silently give up
22:30 <@drobbins> Spider: pauldv is just an email away
22:30 <@drobbins> Spider: as is devrel
22:31 <@drobbins> Spider: just want to be sure that some people aren't putting unreasonable burdens on us
22:31 <+Spider> drobbins: Yes, I know, and I know his mailaddress. the point is, where is it announced? where do others than those who are here find out?
22:31 <@drobbins> Spider: burdens like "figure out what's bothering me, then fix it"
22:32 <+Spider> drobbins: I thought I had pretty clear cases stated today
22:32 <+Spider> drobbins: both stating what was bothering, and partial what could be done to fix it.
22:32 <@drobbins> Spider: I wasn't talking about you at all
22:33 <@drobbins> Spider: if more people just came out and said what's on their mind, there wouldn't be these types of problems
22:33 <+Spider> lots of culture value there
22:33 <@drobbins> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/metastructure/index.xml
22:33 <@drobbins> that is where metastructure is mentioned
22:33 <@drobbins> and that you should email pauldv
22:34 <@drobbins> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/devrel/index.xml
22:34 <@drobbins> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/devrel/ombudsman/index.xml
22:34 <+Spider> Yep. 
22:35 <@drobbins> people have no reason to be afraid of g2boojum
22:35 <+Spider> of course, he might bite ;)
22:35 <@drobbins> do you know what I'm saying though?
22:36 < ciaranm> i find his nick scary... it has a number in it, which makes me irrationally afraid
22:36 <@g2boojum> Spider: Not most days, and chocolate fixes that desire.
22:36 <+Spider> drobbins: I know what you're saying
22:36 <+Spider> g2boojum: Chocolate? "Give to Zim!" 
22:36 <@drobbins> Spider: people love to complain about management
22:36 <@drobbins> Spider: we need to sift out the real issues from the "grumble grumble" stuff
22:37 <@drobbins> Spider: some people will never be satisfied until I give them daily back massages
22:37 <@drobbins> "grumble grumble" can be important to address too
22:37 <+Spider> drobbins: well, to actually do that you have to encourage that even the grumbly grumbly part specify what it is that bothers them.
22:38 <@drobbins> g2boojum: we may need some active efforts to drum up feedback
22:38 <+Spider> And, Given the current mood, That task might unfairly fall on management or devrel, but that be as it may, the "mostly silent" won't come up of themselves
22:38 <@g2boojum> drobbins: Yeah.  Seemant has already started that effort w/ a mail to devrel.
22:39  * Spider humms
22:39 <+Spider> why do I suddenly get the feeling I'm doing QA on the management process too?
22:39 <+Spider> I've been reading too many ebuilds lately :P
22:41 <@drobbins> g2boojum: in the future, we may want to have some kind of user representative who is not a manager, who is responsible for compiling regular reports on the quality of management
22:41 <@drobbins> g2boojum: that may make it more of an active process -- the person gets elected to this position, so has popular support, and has the responsibility of actually writing those reports
22:42 <@g2boojum> Spider: Do me a favor and write up your thoughts about our management process and e-mail them to devrel@gentoo.org w/ a cc to -core.
22:43 <@drobbins> g2boojum: then we aren't in the impossible position of trying to listen to people bad-mouth us behind our backs "grumble grumbles," 
22:43 <+Spider> g2boojum: its pretty hard as its a very overgrasping subject, which parts of it is it you want me to focus on?
22:43 <@drobbins> g2boojum: we have user-relations under devrel now, though.
22:44 <@drobbins> g2boojum: so maybe this will be brandy's job -- she has to go out there, get the dirt, put it in a nice regular report, and allow us to get some feeback
22:44 <@g2boojum> drobbins: Hmmm.  That's what Brandy has been doing to some extent.  seemant would have a better feeling about it.
22:45 <@g2boojum> Spider: Pick whatever you consider the most important.  I just want to get a discussion started, and you're a pretty reasonable sort of chap.
22:45 <@drobbins> some kind of developer feedback survey. "All submissions will be anonymous"
22:45 <@drobbins> that combined with ombusdman and a bit more aggressive metastructure effort should help
22:46 <@g2boojum> drobbins: I agree in principle.  I have a job interview tomorrow, so I'm not really giving this topic my full attention at the moment.
22:46 <@drobbins> g2boojum: ok
22:46 <@drobbins> Spider: I'd also encourage anyone you talk to to not make judgement calls about managers if they can help it
22:47 <@drobbins> Spider: it's one thing to observe that we need to change some procedure, another thing entirely to come to the conclusion that "the managers don't care" etc.
22:47 <@drobbins> the latter tends to cause people to just give up
22:47 <+Spider> drobbins: okay, i'll try to get the right spin on things
22:49 <@drobbins> k
22:49 <@drobbins> :)
22:53 <@g2boojum> Well, I think we may have lost karltk.  In any event, I suggest we officially adjourn here (for those who have not done so already).
22:55 <@karltk> noe, we haven't
22:55 <@karltk> so, in the interest of closure, consider this meeting closed, adjourned or adjointed or whatever.

