--- Log opened Mon Dec 01 11:59:55 2003
11:59 -!- drobbins [~drobbins@inventor.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
11:59 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o drobbins] by ChanServ
12:15 -!- avenj [avenj@h66-222-104-21.66-222.unk.tds.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:15 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o avenj] by ChanServ
12:15 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+tsmk gh45e] by avenj
12:15 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by ChanServ
12:15 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+sntm] by ChanServ
12:37 -!- drobbins [~drobbins@inventor.gentoo.org] has quit ["leaving"]
12:44 -!- drobbins [~drobbins@inventor.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:44 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o drobbins] by ChanServ
12:45 -!- genone [~genone@dsl-213-023-239-146.arcor-ip.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:52  * g2boojum is gone: Meeting in 8 minutes, dashing out for food
12:57 -!- klieber [klieber@klieber.sponsor.freenode] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:57 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o klieber] by ChanServ
12:58 -!- SwifT [~Sven@D5E08908.kabel.telenet.be] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:58 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o SwifT] by ChanServ
12:59 -!- kloeri [~user1@0x50a11a4e.boanxx8.adsl-dhcp.tele.dk] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:59 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+snt] by ChanServ
12:59 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o lisa] by avenj
13:00 -!- Method [Method@204.126.2.41] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:00 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o Method] by ChanServ
13:00 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by avenj
13:00 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+m] by avenj
13:00 <@avenj> i may have to step out early; chanserv will let ops set -m when it's time to open it up
13:01 -!- rac [~rac@mata.intrigue.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:01 <@Method> where is everyone else?
13:01 -!- pauldv [~pauldv@callisto.cs.kun.nl] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:01 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v rac] by ChanServ
13:01 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o pauldv] by ChanServ
13:01 <@avenj> Method: nobody told you about the nuclear holocaust thing?
13:01 <@Method> oh right
13:01 <@Method> all of europe i hope
13:01 <@Method> :P
13:01 <@SwifT> again?
13:02 -!- ciaranm [~ciaranm@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:02 -!- iggy [~brian@65.248.109.87] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o iggy] by ChanServ
13:02 <@pauldv> avenj: what holocaust?
13:02  * SwifT takes out his radiating axe
13:02 <@avenj> Method: yeah - canada's next
13:02 <@Method> avenj: no big loss :D
13:02 -!- tseng [~tseng@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:02 <@avenj> pauldv: i jest; the possibility for massive nuclear annihilation is usually referred to as nuclear holocaust
13:02 -!- Ramereth [~lance@clarity.albertsonfarms.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:03 <@drobbins> hi
13:03 <@pauldv> avenj: I thought you were referring to some network outage or something. But I know what nuclear holocaust is
13:03 <@pauldv> drobbins: hi
13:03  * g2boojum is back from Meeting in 8 minutes, dashing out for food after 11 mins 18 secs
13:03 -!- bazik [~bazik@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:03 -!- sj8trunks [~sj7trunks@mobius.lpbproductions.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:05 <@klieber> so is lisa around to get things started?
13:05 <@SwifT> she died in avenj' nuclear attack
13:05 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o g2boojum] by avenj
13:05 <@lisa> err
13:05 <@lisa> i thought it was 2pm ?
13:05 <@klieber> 1800UTC, no?
13:05 <@lisa> my bad. lol okay, lets get this underway, shall we?
13:06 <@pauldv> lisa: I want to add one small point to the agenda if that is ok? I want to ask about next meeting, maybe 19:00 UTC is a better time now that summertime is over
13:06 <@lisa> First up on the list is drobbins' call for a manager vote to accept or reject the proposed specs at http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/releng/.  anything to preface, drobbins ? :o
13:06 <@drobbins> yeah
13:06 <@lisa> pauldv: *scribbles down
13:07 <@drobbins> the plan as it currently stands is as it is written up on releng, with a couple of changes
13:07 <@drobbins> "2004x1" being replaced with the original "2004.1" naming convention
13:07 <@drobbins> and that klieber and I are going to work out some kind of arrangement for our mirrors
13:07 -!- Tester_ [~Tester__@d213-103-213-3.cust.tele2.fr] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:07 <@Method> 2004.1 looks alot better to me than x1 or r1
13:08 <@Method> although i must say the year naming scheme is kinda.. wierd
13:08 -!- port001 [~port001@cpc2-nott2-4-0-cust160.nott.cable.ntl.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:08 <@Method> office 2003, gentoo 2004
13:08 <@SwifT> don't get drobbins started again :)
13:08 <@Method> :\
13:08 -!- Luke-Jr [~luke-jr@ip68-9-81-231.ri.ri.cox.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:08 <@SwifT> Method: with that little change that we release in the year we mention :p
13:08 <@Method> SwifT: touche
13:09 <@drobbins> anyone have any questions for me?
13:09 <@pauldv> I personally like the year naming. It is very clear, and makes no assumptions about how "far" the distribution is. I would however want to stress that we should not change version schemes on a whimp like MS does
13:09 <@Method> drobbins: how are other arch releases (and hardened releases) going to be affected by this
13:09 <@SwifT> drobbins: nothing changes to the ppl that already have an installed Gentoo, does it?
13:09 -!- zhen [~zhen@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:10 <@drobbins> SwifT: I don't think so. but we should probably figure out what we're going to do with the profiles
13:10 <@drobbins> SwifT: right now we have "1.4" in the profiles. it's there because it never changes.
13:10 <@drobbins> (it seems0
13:10 <@SwifT> :)
13:10 -!- carpaski [carpaski@host165.spe.iit.edu] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:10 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o carpaski] by ChanServ
13:10 <@drobbins> but that's going to change one time or another anyway
13:10 -!- brad_mssw [~brad@shop.mcve.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:10 <@drobbins> s/that's/that was/
13:10 <@drobbins> Method: I don't know.
13:11 <@drobbins> Method: more formal release procedures. we will need release notes for each release.
13:11 <@drobbins> Method: and everything will need to be catalyst-buildable
13:11 <@SwifT> drobbins: will the installation instructions change considerably?
13:11 <@Method> will other archs be able to keep up with the release schedule?
13:12 <@drobbins> Method: other arches will opt-in
13:12 <@Method> in hardened we are going to make selinux livecd's and stages for release but there isn't a huge need to release something quarterly
13:12 <@Method> ok
13:12 <@pauldv> drobbins: I think that when profile changes are needed they should get the version of the release they are needed for. That makes clear what the relations are
13:12 <@drobbins> Method: have you been working with livewire on livecds?
13:12 <@drobbins> SwifT: I don't think too much
13:13 <@Method> drobbins: zhen is doing the leg work on that
13:13 <@drobbins> SwifT: there may be a slight re-organization on the 2-cd set, but will give you the info with plenty of notice
13:13 <@SwifT> ack
13:13 <@drobbins> Method: people have been asking livewire for livecds, and he has been hacking them together
13:13 <@drobbins> Method: this is actually undermining efforts to get catalyst livecd building done
13:14 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v zhen] by Method
13:14 <@Method> zhen: have you done anything for livecd building via catalyst for us?
13:14 <+zhen> Method: us as in gentoo or gentoo hardened?
13:14 <@Method> hardened
13:14 <@drobbins> Method: reason is that livewire is literally hacking them together, and we can't use anything that's a hack for catalyst
13:15 <@Method> well, i'm not interested in getting a hacked cd, it's my belief that zhen has been working on doing it with catalyst but i'm not sure, zhen?
13:15 <+zhen> I have imported the livecd scripts into the catalyst tree and organized them as best as I could. 
13:16 <@Method> drobbins: does this plan include quarterly GRP builds?
13:16 -!- fava|work [~fava@s216-232-59-193.bc.hsia.telus.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:16 <@drobbins> Method: yep
13:16 <+zhen> Method: yes - but I need to sit down for a while w/ either livewire and drobbins (or both) and get a plan going on where we want the livecd scripts to go.
13:16 <@Method> wow, are we going to have some sort of compiling cluster for this?
13:16 <@Method> zhen: i think that should be priority
13:16 <@drobbins> Method: some people (dunno who, need to ask livewire) are bugging him to create livecds
13:16 <@drobbins> Method: will be pretty easy to do
13:16 <@SwifT> it is my understanding that ppl will also be able to update their grp installations with the new grp (emerge --getbinpkg), no?
13:17 -!- solar [~solar@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:17 <@drobbins> Method: anyway, the livecd stuff is disorganized atm
13:17 <@klieber> SwifT: I don't think that's the case
13:17 <@drobbins> Method: should hopefully start getting the catalyst code happening this week
13:17 <@Method> ok, in any case, i agree with the new release plan
13:17 <@pauldv> SwifT: that might yet prove to be a chalenge for keeping binary compatibility
13:17 <@klieber> SwifT: at least, that's not my understanding
13:17 <@drobbins> SwifT: no, fast installs from internet is what we are focusing on
13:17 <@drobbins> SwifT: using --getbinpkg
13:17 <@drobbins> SwifT: but no updates
13:17 <@SwifT> ok
13:18 <@drobbins> SwifT: the update would be to update your portage snapshot and tbz2s to 2004.1
13:18 <@drobbins> SwifT: when it's released
13:19 <@drobbins> quarterly releases happen often enough that they can be our "updates"
13:19 -!- Weeve [weeve@209-6-112-18.c3-0.wth-ubr1.sbo-wth.ma.cable.rcn.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:19 <@drobbins> between releases, there are no plans to offer anything.
13:20 <@Method> will new profiles be created? will users have to manually change the profile link?
13:21 <@drobbins> I am not sure
13:21 <@drobbins> right now, I am not sure if there is a benefit to have quarterly profile changes
13:21 <@SwifT> if 2.6 is released (they say somewhere this month), will the new gentoo release default support it, or keep it as it is currently (a possibility)?
13:21 <@pauldv> I think profiles should only be updated when needed
13:21 <@SwifT> (linux kernel, that is)
13:22 <@drobbins> SwifT: it will be supported
13:22 <@drobbins> SwifT: will probably mean a 2.6 section will need to be in the guide
13:22 <@SwifT> okay, noted
13:23 <@drobbins> recommened default will be 2.4 until 2.6 is more mature
13:23 <@drobbins> ok
13:24 <@iggy> yes, there are still quite a few people that won't be able to use 2.6 for a while
13:24 <@drobbins> ok
13:24 <@drobbins> um
13:25 <@drobbins> any more questions?
13:25 <@SwifT> will some "freeze" be announced?
13:25 <@drobbins> I've asked managers and devs to voice concerns about the plan before the meeting, so they can be addressed before the vote.
13:25 <@drobbins> SwifT: a general schedule will be available
13:25 <@drobbins> SwifT: arch leads will be allowed to choose what time to do their portage snapshot
13:25 <@drobbins> since some may need to get some late-breaking stuff in their snapshots
13:26 <@drobbins> so there is going to be some lee-way there.
13:26 <@drobbins> I hate the word "freeze"
13:26 <@drobbins> because it means different things to different people
13:27 <@drobbins> I'm hoping there won't need to be any kind of commit freeze
13:27 <@drobbins> if we have metadata.xml in place and people respect it, we should not need it.
13:27 <@SwifT> okay, that was all I had to ask
13:28 <@drobbins> ok
13:28 <@drobbins> lisa: ping
13:28 <@lisa> drobbins: yessir
13:28 <@drobbins> I think we are missing several managers
13:28 <@Method> are we done with this? 
13:28 <@Method> oh
13:28 <@drobbins> seemant and pvdabeel for one
13:28 <@drobbins> but we need to vote on it
13:28 <@lisa> Do you want to postpone the vote then?
13:29 <@pauldv> I think the other votes can come on email
13:29 <@drobbins> yep
13:29 <@drobbins> we should vote
13:29 <@drobbins> then rest by email
13:29 <@lisa> Okay, go for it.
13:29 <@drobbins> I vote "yep"
13:29 <@iggy> aye
13:29 <@pauldv> yep
13:29 <@klieber> yes
13:29 <@SwifT> yep
13:30 <@lisa> That all of ya?
13:30 <@avenj> yes
13:30 <@drobbins> Method
13:31 <@drobbins> method can email in his vote :)
13:31 <@drobbins> let's continue
13:31 <@lisa> Okay. Next up on the list is an update of the status of GLEP 14, by genone.
13:31 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v genone] by lisa
13:31 <@lisa> genone: Its all you.
13:31 <+genone> ok
13:32 <+genone> current status is that new GLSAs are already written in XML
13:32 <+genone> we have a QT tool for writing them written by plasmaroo
13:33 <+genone> and a prototype tool for applying them on a Gentoo system in portage cvs
13:33 <+genone> drobbins has a few ideas how to improve the DTD that need to be discussed before it can be implemented in portage itself
13:34 <+genone> we have a website with all GLSAs using a xsl stylesheet, an index should be available soon
13:35 <@SwifT> unless I'm mistaken, the xsl is still unused because the glsa xml's don't have the appropriate <?xml-stylesheet ...> tags
13:35 <+genone> we try to have a meeting for discussing several ideas about GLSA development this week
13:35 <@Method> no
13:35 <@Method> i voted yes
13:35 <@Method> sorry
13:36 <@Method> and i'll brb, going to my office
13:36 <+genone> SwifT: some have them, some not
13:37 <@drobbins> genone: ok
13:37 <+genone> so the next step is to get the DTD finalized
13:37 <@SwifT> genone: which have them? glsa-200311-01 -> 08 don't
13:37 <@drobbins> genone: I've pinged carpaski for an integration plan for the GLSAs, and also for clearly defining *exactly* how secure we're going to be, and what hte capabilities of the GLSA-awareness should be
13:38 <@SwifT> genone: unless (gentoo)/xml/htdocs/security/en/glsa isn't the location of the glsa's
13:38 <+genone> SwifT: let me check
13:38 <@drobbins> genone: because talking to him, we both had different ideas on the requirements of such a system
13:38 <@pauldv> genone: I have one question that might involve the DTD's? How is gpg signing going to be done. There needs to be some process on the signing. It doesn't make much sense if a GLSA is signed by an arbitrary developer
13:39 <+genone> SwifT: ok, your're right
13:39 <@SwifT> always
13:39  * SwifT ducks
13:39 <@SwifT> j/k :)
13:39 <@drobbins> just for some background (requested by solar)
13:39 <@drobbins> I was thinking of using global updates to get portage quickly aware of any pending glsas
13:39 <+genone> pauldv: that's one of the things that needs to be discussed
13:40 <@drobbins> carpaski wants to have full GLSA xml in the portage tree, and a complete set of xml at that
13:40 <@drobbins> so I think some decision needs to be made if we are checking for interim GLSAs or if we are doing full audits each time (even of say, 2 year old GLSAs)
13:40 <@iggy> pauldv: genone: hythloday's idea of having a security@gentoo.org sign all the GLSA people's keys, then rely on that
13:40 <@drobbins> and can we assume that after a GLSA is released, the portage tree is free of any offending ebuilds?
13:40 <@drobbins> that kind of thing...
13:41 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v Luke-Jr] by lisa
13:41 <@lisa> i should point out that if you need voice or something to please /msg me. /notices will probably get lost in the status window
13:42 <@klieber> so any other updates on the GLSA glep?
13:43 <+genone> iggy: pauldv: it also depends on how the portage integration is done, e.g. we could put a keyring with the keys of all allowed devs in the tree
13:43 <@klieber> that should probably also be integrated into the ebuild signing feature that is supposed to be added at some point
13:44 <+genone> any other questions ?
13:44 -!- Method [Method@204.126.2.41] has quit [Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)]
13:44 <@lisa> That sort of integration will have to be revistted when ebuild signing comes closer to being.
13:44 -!- Method [Method@204.126.2.41] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:44 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o Method] by ChanServ
13:44 <@carpaski> ebuild signing == signing manifests
13:44 <@Method> ok
13:44 <@Method> what did i miss?
13:45 <@SwifT> Method: Linus dropped by, but he left again...
13:45 <@Method> damn
13:45 <@lisa> Method: Updated GLEP 14 status
13:45 <@Method> that is the security one yes?
13:45 <@lisa> Okay, unless there's anything else let's move on...
13:45 <@lisa> Method: yes
13:45 <@Method> what is the status?
13:45 <@SwifT> Method: progressing... :)
13:45 <@drobbins> genone: did the meeting happen, or is it upcoming?
13:46 <@lisa> read the log ;-)
13:46 <@Method> ok
13:46 <@carpaski> >=49-r19 will have the tools in it.
13:46 <+Luke-Jr> carpaski: why not sign all the data? o.o
13:46 <@drobbins> solar tells me the meeting is upcoming
13:46 <+genone> drobbins: noone had time yesterday, rajiv suggested tommorow same time
13:46 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: can we save this until Q&A?
13:46 <@drobbins> (the GLSA meeting)
13:46 <@drobbins> ok
13:47 <+Luke-Jr> klieber: shrug... looked like the votes were prior to Q&A
13:47 <@carpaski> Luke-Jr: Excess files in the tree. Manifests can have signatures inline.
13:47 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: you had _weeks_ to comment on the releng proposal
13:47 <@lisa> Okay gang, let's move on
13:47 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-vv genone Luke-Jr] by lisa
13:47 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: do you need voice for anything, or can it wait until Q&A?
13:47 -!- Spider|Gone [~Spider@213.134.113.127] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:47 <@avenj> nm :)
13:47 -!- Spider|Gone [~Spider@213.134.113.127] has left #gentoo-meetings []
13:47 <@lisa> Next up on the list is something about the ACCEPT_LICENSES fiasco (just when you thought you could 'mark as read'...) by ciaranm 
13:47 -!- Spider [~Spider@213.134.113.127] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:48 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v ciaranm] by lisa
13:48 <+ciaranm> ok
13:48 <@lisa> Let's keep this brief and the flamewars confined to a dull roar. ;-)
13:48 <+ciaranm> background: this started as a discussion on the -user mailing list and moved to -dev pretty quickly
13:48 <+ciaranm> some users would like the ability to selectively accept or refuse licences and have portage handle this for them
13:49 <+ciaranm> for example, some users would like to only emerge 'free' software
13:49 <+ciaranm> this could be done by having an ACCEPT_LICENCES keyword in make.conf
13:49 <+ciaranm> (probably US spelling, actually)
13:50 <+ciaranm> the issue that caused a lot of contention was what the default should be
13:50 <@klieber> ciaranm: isn't this better served by creating a GLEP?
13:50 <@drobbins> ciaranm: the default needs to be "*"
13:50 <@Method> we talked about this months and months ago and nothing was done, is someone actually writing the stuff now?
13:50 <+ciaranm> klieber: agriffis may be working on that, but he's been away for five days so i'm not sure
13:50 <@SwifT> * would include licenses of which the user needs to manually accept, so cannot be done
13:50 <+ciaranm> drobbins: agreed, except for the id licence
13:51 <@drobbins> SwifT: "* -manual -manual2 -manual3"
13:51 <@drobbins> SwifT: but that's not a great default
13:51 <@SwifT> that's more like it :)
13:51 <+ciaranm> also, as there are several hundred licences in portage, some kind of grouping is needed
13:51 <@drobbins> SwifT: since it's hard to keep up-to-date.
13:51 <+ciaranm> groups such as fsf-approved and osi-approved would be easy enough
13:51 <@SwifT> drobbins: I'm more concerned about the legal precautions than the rest
13:52 <@SwifT> but to second klieber, a nice GLEP could solve most questions before they are (generally) asked
13:52 <+ciaranm> some people would like all-free, but i personally think that that would just lead to flamewars wrt what's free
13:52 <@klieber> ciaranm: what is the purpose of this meeting item?
13:52 <@drobbins> SwifT: I agree, GLEP it
13:52 <@drobbins> it's important enough to need a GLEP
13:52 <+ciaranm> klieber: a) defaults, b) grouping
13:52 <@klieber> ciaranm: that sounds better suited to a GLEP
13:53 <+ciaranm> klieber: yup... once agriffis returns i'll discuss it with him. he was requesting discussion on defaults
13:53 <@drobbins> ciaranm: yes a good set of defaults is needed
13:53 <@drobbins> ciaranm: I hope for portage-ng to be able to make arbitrary masking decisions on any kind of metadata out of the box
13:53 <+ciaranm> Luke-Jr suggests using * -manual-acceptance for default
13:53 <@g2boojum> ciaranm: The last five days were US Thanksgiving, which is probably why he's been "missing".
13:53 <@pauldv> I'm also in favor of GLEP-ing the proposal
13:54 <@drobbins> ciaranm: since in a few months we may want to add ACCEPT_FOO and ACCEPT_BAR... the solution doesn't scale. but for portage(non-ng), ACCEPT_LICENSES should be fine I think.
13:54 <+ciaranm> correction: Luke-Jr would like manual-acceptance as a group
13:54 <@pauldv> And I don't like manual acceptance except when it can be split into a separate invocation like "emerge --pretent --accept"
13:55 <+ciaranm> anything making emerge interactive would upset some people
13:55 <@drobbins> ciaranm: would be cool if we could have groups for licenses in the syntax
13:55 <@drobbins> ciaranm: like "* -@manual"
13:55 <@SwifT> *cough* I have to leave a bit after 1900 UTC *cough*
13:55 <@klieber> this ACCEPT_LICENSE thing is going to be optional, I hope?  as in, if I don't do or change anything, I won't even know it's there?
13:55 <@SwifT> :)
13:56 <@drobbins> klieber: I would also expect that in any implementation
13:56 <+ciaranm> klieber: a lot of the users want that, although a few would prefer the defaults to be stricter to avoid accidentally accepting 'bad' licences
13:56 <@klieber> ciaranm: I would personally strongly object to the latter
13:56 <@drobbins> ciaranm: default should be as lax as legally possible
13:57 <@iggy> it's all been said before, this really needs a GLEP, that's the best way to handle it
13:57 <+ciaranm> okay, i think drobbins' last statement clears the issue wrt defaults
13:57 <@drobbins> klieber: I"m ok with the latter, as long as the 'bad' licenses are legally bad, not just "that license isn't GPL, therefore it's bad!" bad
13:57 <@klieber> iggy's right -- this needs a GLEP
13:57 <+ciaranm> genone suggests that there could be several default options commented in make.conf
13:57 <@drobbins> ok
13:57 <+ciaranm> glep then?
13:57 <@drobbins> the word on the street is that this convo --> GLEP
13:58  * ciaranm is happy with that
13:58 <@lisa> Okay.
13:58 <@lisa> Thanks ciaranm.
13:59 <@lisa> Last thing on the list was proposed by pauldv, to move the meetig time to 1900UTC instead of 1800UTC.
13:59 <@lisa> pauldv: make your case. ;-)
13:59 <@SwifT> that would be better for me personally as I don't have to rush at home then :)
14:00 <@iggy> fine with me
14:00 <@drobbins> 1800UTC works better for me, as I need to pick up my daughter from school at 19:30 UTC
14:00 <@klieber> either is fine w/ me
14:00 <@drobbins> on mondays
14:00 -!- seemant [~seemant@ca-stmnca-cuda1-blade2b-136.stmnca.adelphia.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
14:00 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o seemant] by ChanServ
14:00 <@avenj> either is fine with me too
14:00 <@drobbins> seemant: I just tried calling you
14:01 <@drobbins> seemant: what city are you in atm
14:01 <@iggy> I have nothing better to do all day, so as long as it's not before 10am CST or after 2-3ish
14:01 <@seemant> drobbins: sorry, was out for a few minutes
14:01 <@seemant> drobbins: back in LA
14:01 <@SwifT> Perhaps all managers could send a mail to each other and tell when they are definately available (3 points) or can make themselves available (1 point)? then an easy consensus can be made... and if not, then 1800 UTC remains
14:02 <@pauldv> well, I had the idea because on monday I sometimes have train delays which make it hard for me to make 1800UTC, a bit later gives me some leeway
14:03 <@carpaski> It doesn't matter to me for the next two months.
14:03 <@seemant> a bit later would be better for me as well, and ditto @ 2 months
14:04 <@drobbins> my wife *says* she can pick up hadassah every monday, but with a 4-month-old, that may not always be the case
14:04 <@pauldv> a bit could even be 15 minutes for me
14:04 <@drobbins> but it sounds like I could swing 1900UTC most of the time
14:05 -!- SwifT [~Sven@D5E08908.kabel.telenet.be] has left #gentoo-meetings ["gotta go, another meeting calls"]
14:06 <@drobbins> ok
14:06 <@drobbins> anything else on the agenda?
14:06 <@lisa> Nothing
14:06 <@drobbins> Q&A?
14:07  * lisa nods
14:07 <@pauldv> drobbins: what did we now decide about the time?
14:07 -!- TEster3 [~Tester__@d213-103-227-102.cust.tele2.fr] has joined #gentoo-meetings
14:07 <@lisa> so if one of you want to -m...
14:07 -!- Tester_ [~Tester__@d213-103-213-3.cust.tele2.fr] has quit [Nick collision from services.]
14:08 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by avenj
14:08 < port001> What was the conclusion on the Desktop manager vote?
14:08 -!- TEster3 is now known as Tester_
14:08 <@avenj> port001: what desktop manager vote?
14:08 <@iggy> port001: there wasn't one
14:08 < Luke-Jr> If signing is on the Manifest, then it does not allow for the possibility of devs signing only part of a package in Portage...
14:08 <@pauldv> port001: we still need to vote. Basically I want to first ask confirmation from the candidates that they are available
14:08 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: how do you mean?
14:08 < port001> eh? There was a vote for desktop lead.... 
14:08 < Spider> pauldv: I'm avaiable.
14:08 <@pauldv> Spider: no time problems then
14:09 <@pauldv> Spider: ?
14:09 < Luke-Jr> avenj: it prevents devs from signing only part of a package
14:09 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: everything is digested (in Manifest), therefore signing anything but the Manifest is pointless
14:09 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: i still don't understand what you mean
14:09 <@drobbins> Luke-Jr: there are md5s in the manifest
14:09 < Luke-Jr> Right
14:09 < Spider> pauldv: Nope,  for at least 3 months forwards I'm pretty safe.
14:09 <@drobbins> Luke-Jr: but you mean the eclasses and friends
14:09 < Luke-Jr> But what if I want to sign 1.0 and not 1.1?
14:09 <@drobbins> Luke-Jr: and the profile/ directory
14:09 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: why would you want to do that?
14:09 <@seemant> port001: no vote yet, as far as I know -- just nominations made
14:09 < Luke-Jr> avenj: Don't know, but I think it should be techinically possible.
14:09 <@drobbins> Luke-Jr: ok, I thought you were saying something that made sense :)
14:09 <@avenj> Luke-Jr: why?
14:09 < Spider> pauldv: until last of march I'm solid and "not at home" for most 3 days / week.
14:10 < port001> seemant: ah ok
14:10 -!- nakano_ [~username@host-212-158-202-109.bulldogdsl.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
14:10 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: if you don't know why it's necessary, then why on earth do you think it should be added?
14:10 < Luke-Jr> avenj: In case some day we want to do something like allow non-devs to upload unsigned ebuilds and have portage ignore them by default until a dev signs them
14:10 < Luke-Jr> avenj: or something similar
14:10 <@carpaski> The problem is that you cannot guarentee there isn't a rogue file in the set... Newer package versions with completely invalid files would be prefered to the signed ones.
14:10 <@pauldv> Spider: I don't think that is a problem, as long as you have enough time to do what is needed. I'm not there to say that you should do it every day
14:10 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: that makes no sense whatsoever
14:10 < Luke-Jr> klieber: In case we have need of it in the future
14:11 < tseng> sorry, i thought the meeting was over ;)
14:11 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: there are lots of things we might 'need' in the future.  should we let that constrain what we do now?
14:11 -!- tantive [nobody@pD9E61C88.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
14:11 <@carpaski> Luke-Jr: That wouldn't happen in portage proper. That'd probably be an overlay set.
14:11 < tseng> pauldv: im available, unless ive been de-nominated ;)
14:11 < Luke-Jr> klieber: If it doesn't hurt anything, why not?
14:11 < Spider> pauldv: Well, I should have the time :)
14:11 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: well, it would hurt something, so why shoudl we?
14:12 < Luke-Jr> klieber: how would it hurt anything?
14:12 <+rac> one important reason that only manifests were signed in the original implementation discussion was to alleviate the fears of folks who thought signature verification would be too heavy of an operation
14:12 -!- ian|home [~ian@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
14:12 <@pauldv> Luke-Jr: even if the user versions would not be preferred there will still be people wanting them instead of the official ones. In other words, it WILL hurt
14:12 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: because we already have plans to sign manifests.  you're asking for things to be re-worked and code to be re-written.
14:12 <+ciaranm> are signature verifications going to be mandatory or optional? eg in FEATURES?
14:12 < Luke-Jr> pauldv: that was just an example of how it might be used in the future as a possibility
14:13 < Luke-Jr> klieber: is code already written for manifest signatures?
14:13 < port001> On the subject of security... The Debian crackers used a developer as a springboard. What are peoples thoughts on insuring atleast some security on developers boxes? This could range from simple advice to mandatory packages to be installed... just a rough idea
14:13 <@klieber> ciaranm: as its been discussed, there will be different levels of paranoia that you can set in make.conf
14:13 <@Method> port001: key authentication only
14:13 <@pauldv> Luke-Jr: I do agree that signed ebuilds or an equivalent is good
14:13 <+ciaranm> klieber: sounds good, thanks
14:13 <@Method> the debian break in was because a debian dev used the same password on a compromised 3rd party box as the debian box
14:13 <@Method> with key auth only that wouldn't be an issue
14:14 < tseng> it would
14:14 <@avenj> bbiab
14:14 < Luke-Jr> tseng: not as big an issue
14:14 < Spider> Method: A dev's box may still be cracked, from there its a small step to grab a keylogger and get the key
14:14 < port001> the servers still allow non key authed logins
14:14 <@klieber> port001: we can mandate whatever we want, but unless someone's going to foot the bill for spot audits, it doesn't do much good.
14:14 < tseng> if the box was compromised, the attacker would have access to the private keys
14:14 < tseng> and.. access to any trusting boxes
14:14 <@klieber> port001: which servers?
14:14 <@Method> Spider: aye, but that is a hell of alot better than grabbing a password from a 3rd party that you can't control at all
14:14 <@klieber> port001: cvs.g.o does'nt allow password auth.
14:15 <@carpaski> Why worry about grabbing the key? If you use keychain, itmakes it very very easy to get tothe server one you're on a dev box.
14:15 < port001> klieber: well that would be the duty of the dev
14:15 <@pauldv> klieber: but dev does and it is not hard to upload an ssh key
14:15 < port001> klieber: doesn't dev allow it?
14:16 < Luke-Jr> klieber: if dev allows it, then the attacker can upload their own key...
14:16 <@klieber> pauldv: I'm happy to disable password auth on dev.g.o as long as there's a consensus that doing so is "OK"
14:16 <@iggy> klieber: okay by me
14:16  * Luke-Jr doesn't use password auth since discovering ssh keys
14:16 < tseng> cool here
14:16 < bazik> yes
14:16 < port001> fine here
14:16 <@Method> yes
14:16 < tseng> in fact.. i insist ;)
14:16 <@iggy> and only my opinion matters ;)
14:16 < Luke-Jr> iggy: LOL
14:17 <@klieber> ok, well I'll post something on -dev and as long as there isn't violent opposition, I'll make the change.
14:17  * Luke-Jr wonders who would oppose it
14:17 <@carpaski> passwords are easier to change than keys...
14:17 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: it does make accessing dev.g.o from boxes that aren't your own harder
14:17 < Luke-Jr> we all need to use keys for cvs.g.o anyway
14:17 < Luke-Jr> klieber: Not really
14:17 <@klieber> Luke-Jr: really
14:17 <@pauldv> klieber: for be it would be ok
14:17 < Luke-Jr> klieber: I'd just SSH to my own system first
14:18 < Luke-Jr> klieber: Or share net with my laptop
14:18 <@pauldv> Luke-Jr: me neither, it is wonderfull to use keys, it saves a lot of pw typing
14:18 < Luke-Jr> and SSH from there
14:18 < Ramereth> the two systems i have the keys on aren't always on
14:18 <@drobbins> carpaski: was away in another window, but is there a way to sign eclasses and the profiles/ tree, for example?
14:18 <@carpaski> drobbins: No defined way yet...
14:18 <@carpaski> drobbins: eclasses can be detached sigs... as there aren't thousands of them...
14:18 < Luke-Jr> Ramereth: floppy?
14:18 <@carpaski> profiles... should probably be an Manifest.
14:18 <@pauldv> Luke-Jr: not everyone has that possibility
14:18 <@drobbins> carpaski: non-signing of eclasses is a big security hole, it makes the GPG signing of ebuilds useless
14:19 <@carpaski> yeah, I was made aware of that a while back.
14:19 <@drobbins> carpaski: we also have the profiles/ and scripts/ dirs
14:19 <@carpaski> eclasses are the only thing of real concern though.
14:19 <@drobbins> carpaski: scripts/ is vulnerable to abuse
14:19 < Ramereth> Luke-Jr: that would be annoying, the only thing i'd do is put they keys on a box I know is secure and is always on
14:19 <@carpaski> The profiles aren't sourced.
14:19 < Luke-Jr> Ramereth: that too
14:20 < Tester_> even stuff like make.defaults ?
14:20 <@carpaski> scripts/ is a tough one though... They aren't used by portage... they use portaeg.
14:20 < Ramereth> i'm not against disabling passwds, just pointing out that some of us will have to change a few things so we can access it
14:20 <@drobbins> carpaski: quite true
14:20 <@carpaski> Tester_: profiles is read, not run.
14:20 < Tester_> ok
14:20 <@drobbins> I need to head out
14:20 <@drobbins> talk to you all later :)
14:20 < Luke-Jr> Ramereth: Nothing too hard, I hope.
14:21 < Ramereth> Luke-Jr: nope, not really, i just don't like the idea of having they key on another box
14:21 < Luke-Jr> worst case, devs can probably get someone else's trusted 24/7 system to host their key
14:21 <@carpaski> I've gotta run as well...
14:21 <+ciaranm> hmm, i need food... feel free to email me any thoughts on the whole licences thing
14:21 <@drobbins> ciaranm: start working on a GLEP :)
14:22 <@drobbins> ciaranm: it's one of those much-requested features that we need a GLEP for
14:22 <+ciaranm> drobbins: will do... hopefully agriffis will help me :)
14:22 <@drobbins> ciaranm: he will, he's likely on vacation
14:22  * ciaranm forgot about the whole USA holiday thing
14:22 < Luke-Jr> What holiday?
14:23 <+ciaranm> Luke-Jr: they have a turkey holiday i believe
14:23 < Luke-Jr> oh
14:23 <@carpaski> "Thanksgiving"
14:23  * carpaski /gone
14:23 < Luke-Jr> o.o
14:23  * ciaranm also /gone
14:24 -!- port001 [~port001@cpc2-nott2-4-0-cust160.nott.cable.ntl.com] has left #gentoo-meetings ["hehe, I just parted!"]
14:24 -!- Ramereth [~lance@clarity.albertsonfarms.com] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Leaving"]
14:24 -!- rac [~rac@mata.intrigue.com] has left #gentoo-meetings []
14:24 <@pauldv> Luke-Jr: if everyone will use that system, it introduces the same problems as disallowing password access on dev tries to solve
14:25 < Luke-Jr> pauldv: Nah, most devs would be on diff systems
14:25 < Luke-Jr> pauldv: and it's not *.g.o so that alone makes it a bit safer
14:25 <@pauldv> Luke-Jr: I guess then it wouldn't be that much of a problem
14:27 < Luke-Jr> For example, I wouldn't mind another dev keeping their keys on my system, but I wouldn't recommend it either.
14:27 < bazik> bah, i wanted to follow this meeting very carefull but then my girlfriend called me... dammit
14:27 < ian|home> bazik: hang up then
14:27 <@pauldv> bazik: which point were you interested in?
14:27 < bazik> i did
14:28 < bazik> pauldv: nothing specific
14:29 < Luke-Jr> (reason being that the only reason I trust my system is because I know everyone who has physical access to the box)
14:29 < bazik> i appreciate that we may disable the password login on emu (if there are no rejections)
14:29 -!- pappy- [~pappy@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
14:30 < bazik> and i like the naming scheme 2004.1 instead of 2004x1 or r1... although method is right that it looks much like office 2003 ;)
14:30 < bazik> but at least we are 1995.1 version numbers higher than suse (9.0)
14:31 < bazik> j/k
14:31 < ian|home> bazik: as long we do not call it 'gentoo longhorn'... ;)
14:31 < bazik> heh
14:31 < Luke-Jr> ian|home: Gentoo Shorthorn?
14:31 < bazik> emerge enlargement
14:31 < solar> anybody have access to GenBot? 
14:32 < bazik> carpaski
14:32 < Luke-Jr> solar: carpaski
14:32 < solar> anybody else?
14:32 < Luke-Jr> carpaski_
14:32 < Luke-Jr> =p
14:32 < solar> heh ok.
14:32 < genone> codespoon
14:33 < bazik> about the ACCEPT_LICENSES... as long as we got no 'sco' LICENSE flag, everything is fine to me :)
14:33 < ian|home> heh
14:33 < bazik> thats about it... i am too lazy to read the logs in detail... will wait for the summary
14:34 < bazik> back to play with catalyst ;)
14:34  * ian|home chooses bazik to write the summary
14:34 <@lisa> *laugh*
14:34 < bazik> ian|home: whois me and guess what channel suites you
14:35 < bazik> oh and remember to change the password of this channel
14:35  * bazik looks at Tester_ 
14:35  * Luke-Jr looks at Tester_, too.
14:36 < bazik> 18:07 <@Tester_>  /join #gentoo-meetings gh45e
14:36 < bazik> 18:07 <@Tester_> oops
14:36 < Luke-Jr> bazik: You just repeated the password! =p
14:36 < bazik> i am _in_ meetings :P
14:36 < tseng> ...
14:36 < Tester_> well its been the same password for like four months! ;)
14:37 < Luke-Jr> Tester_: which is a good thing
14:37 < Luke-Jr> idea... let's use our SSH keys to auth for the chat =p
14:37 < bazik> ok, who votes for public key auth of this channel?
14:37 < Tester_> but it was not voluntary...
14:37 <@iggy> yeah, we need a good password
14:37 < bazik> what about 'password'?
14:37 < ian|home> erm.
14:37 < Luke-Jr> LOL
14:37 < bazik> ok 'g3nb0t'
14:37 <@iggy> no, "hallsmentho-lyptus"
14:38 < bazik> or 'hackourdebian'
14:38 < ian|home> bazik: when will l33tn3ss stop? ;)
14:38 < bazik> ian|home: when someone nicks my 0x1337.net domain :P
14:38 < ian|home> lol
14:38 < Luke-Jr> We could make a "Gentoo Chat" GPG key and sign the meeting date & time using it to get a password...
14:38 < bazik> Luke-Jr: write a GLEP
14:38 < bazik> :P
14:38 < Luke-Jr> give all the devs the private key
14:39 <@lisa> Okay Ladies and Gents, looks like its time to go hit the zilla and get some bugs whacked, cuz I'm starting to think that we here are done for this week!
14:39 < Luke-Jr> owGbwMvMwCSYFn9Q9qrd1GbG06JJDPanZ5wzNNI3MNQ3MjAwVjC0MDDosGdmBYnfgykUZLoym2G+M89jAf6pDP7efjGHLIQnR+Vd2PObYUHP5QuRntJTprFv37dqirf0mwVqk38DAA===Ju5r
14:39  * lisa looks at Grant, "happy?" :-D jk ;)
14:39 < bazik> lisa--
14:39 < Luke-Jr> LOL
14:39 < Luke-Jr> bazik: Genbot's not here
14:40 < bazik>  /msg genbot lisa--
14:40 < bazik> oops
14:40 < Luke-Jr> LOL
14:40 < bazik> Luke-Jr: botsnack
14:40 < bazik> silly LOL-bot
14:40 < ian|home> LOL
14:40 < Luke-Jr> bazik: u
14:40 < Spider> hehe
14:40 < Spider> I miss the "most opened new bugs" post in GWN ; )
14:41 < Luke-Jr> Maybe the entire GWN should go on hiatus(sp?) for april 1
14:41 < Luke-Jr> too bad April 1 isn't a Mon or anywhere near it
14:41 -!- avenj [avenj@h66-222-104-21.66-222.unk.tds.net] has left #gentoo-meetings []
--- Log closed Mon Dec 01 14:42:21 2003
