**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Mon Nov  3 18:04:37 2003

Nov 03 18:04:37 -->	You are now talking on #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:05:00 <g2boojum>	Okay, chair's here.
Nov 03 18:05:08 <liquidx>	sorry for being late 
Nov 03 18:05:21 <liquidx>	was held up in a meeting 
Nov 03 18:05:29 <liquidx>	ok .. lets get started then 
Nov 03 18:06:01 <drobbins>	ok
Nov 03 18:06:09 <liquidx>	so is there anyone else who should be here? like the other managers ? 
Nov 03 18:06:26 <port001>	carpaski might have input on my proposed topic
Nov 03 18:06:27 <SwifT>	preferably :)
Nov 03 18:06:45 <g2boojum>	liquidx: klieber can't make it.
Nov 03 18:07:00 <drobbins>	iggy can't make it either
Nov 03 18:07:35 <liquidx>	oic .. well, that'll do for now then ...
Nov 03 18:07:56 <liquidx>	so i guess i'll hand over to g2boojum to start off .. 
Nov 03 18:08:26 <g2boojum>	Okay.  In my other Gentoo job as the current ombudsman, I've noticed a few rumblings recently about people feeling like Gentoo is "drifting".
Nov 03 18:08:30 -->	seemant (~seemant@ca-stmnca-cuda1-blade2a-82.stmnca.adelphia.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:08:30 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to seemant
Nov 03 18:08:33 <--	seemant (~seemant@ca-stmnca-cuda1-blade2a-82.stmnca.adelphia.net) has left #gentoo-meetings ("Who knows if I'll be back")
Nov 03 18:08:49 <g2boojum>	My guess is that one of the reasons is that Gentoo is so large that it's hard to tell who's doing what.
Nov 03 18:09:37 <g2boojum>	My suggestion is that once every few months or so, it would be really nice if the managers would provide an update on what's happening w/ their project.  The recent ones by docs and infrastructure were both really nice.
Nov 03 18:09:37 -->	Obz (~gards1@203.59.210.60) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:09:38 -->	genone (~genone@dsl-213-023-234-095.arcor-ip.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:09:47 <g2boojum>	That's actually about it.
Nov 03 18:09:55 *	SwifT is in favor
Nov 03 18:09:55 <SwifT>	:)
Nov 03 18:10:05 -->	seemant (~seemant@ca-stmnca-cuda1-blade2a-82.stmnca.adelphia.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:10:05 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to seemant
Nov 03 18:10:11 <liquidx>	i know i'm not a manager, but i've got some input on this one
Nov 03 18:10:22 <drobbins>	g2boojum: there has been a push to get updates to -dev, -core, and ultimately to the project pages themselves
Nov 03 18:10:31 <drobbins>	g2boojum: all of the managers are actually communicating very well, which is a good thing
Nov 03 18:10:42 <liquidx>	would it be possible to have a sort of informal blog type infrastructure, sort of like the evolution blog 
Nov 03 18:10:43 <drobbins>	g2boojum: but status updates have up until now been posted to -managers only
Nov 03 18:10:59 <port001>	g2boojum: just as little side note, perhaps in the future something like http://qa.debian.org would be useful, I notice they have a TODO in some places
Nov 03 18:11:06 <drobbins>	liquidx: pauldv is working on XML specifically for our project pages
Nov 03 18:11:07 <liquidx>	where people aren't forced to post progress, but can do and all the devs can have access .. 
Nov 03 18:11:17 <drobbins>	liquidx: that would allow updates on our project pages, or a global "news" page, etc.
Nov 03 18:11:23 <g2boojum>	drobbins: I was pretty sure that the managers were communicating.  For devs and users, though, it looked like nothing was happening, which was particularly ironic and unfortunate since so much is.
Nov 03 18:11:33 <liquidx>	drobbins: yep, that sounds exactly like what i had in mind
Nov 03 18:11:33 <drobbins>	g2boojum: agreed
Nov 03 18:11:40 <drobbins>	so work on that is actively underway
Nov 03 18:11:40 -->	carpaski (carpaski@host165.spe.iit.edu) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:11:41 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to carpaski
Nov 03 18:12:26 <liquidx>	so maybe it might be best for pauldv to give a report on how that would work sometime in the future
Nov 03 18:12:33 <drobbins>	so imo, this issue is in the process of being solved
Nov 03 18:12:36 <drobbins>	yep
Nov 03 18:12:40 <SwifT>	liquidx: that should be pretty fast
Nov 03 18:12:53 <liquidx>	SwifT: indeed
Nov 03 18:12:54 <SwifT>	currently, project pages already can contain sort-of todo list (milestones) with dates and suh
Nov 03 18:13:24 <drobbins>	pauldv is very good with xml so I expect a solution from him soon
Nov 03 18:13:39 <liquidx>	well, i think we will have to defer that to pauldv, who unfortunately isn't with us today
Nov 03 18:14:03 <liquidx>	then lets move right along to portage-ng, i know drobbins didn't have much time to prepare for this one
Nov 03 18:14:12 <drobbins>	ok
Nov 03 18:14:23 <drobbins>	ho hum
Nov 03 18:14:30 <drobbins>	we are aggressively working on plans for portage-ng
Nov 03 18:15:04 <drobbins>	I think the important thing to underline here is that portage-ng, if we do our job right, will be beyond peoples' wildest expectations
Nov 03 18:15:10 <drobbins>	this is not going to simply be a rewrite
Nov 03 18:15:16 <drobbins>	or a new version
Nov 03 18:15:28 <drobbins>	right now we are at the blueprint stage
Nov 03 18:15:46 <genone>	who is "we" if I may ask ?
Nov 03 18:15:50 <drobbins>	the plan is to get a solid blueprint, then make it a community project at the earliest possible point
Nov 03 18:16:00 <drobbins>	me, carpaski, pvdabeel
Nov 03 18:16:11 <drobbins>	I'm hoping to get rac involved
Nov 03 18:16:43 <drobbins>	I can discuss key parts of the architecture that already seem to have broad support
Nov 03 18:16:56 <drobbins>	the first is to make it a true community project
Nov 03 18:17:10 <port001>	have any of the "hot topics" been decided upon? i.e Language, Server/Client design?, reverse deps etc
Nov 03 18:17:11 <drobbins>	to do this, we first need to understand why portage currently *isn't* a true community project
Nov 03 18:17:16 <drobbins>	I'll get to that
Nov 03 18:17:36 <drobbins>	portage isn't a true community project not because of any person, but because of the code
Nov 03 18:17:50 <drobbins>	we don't have a solid component or "plug in" architecture that facilitates community development
Nov 03 18:17:56 -->	avenj (avenj@66.222.104.91) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:17:56 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to avenj
Nov 03 18:18:01 <drobbins>	the code is very fragile. it evolved rather than being designed.
Nov 03 18:18:12 <drobbins>	(in a lot of ways)
Nov 03 18:18:22 ---	avenj sets mode +s #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:18:25 <drobbins>	so the key aspect to portage-ng is going to be a component or plugin architecture
Nov 03 18:18:42 <drobbins>	this means that major parts that are now "Core" portage are going to be implemented as plugins or components
Nov 03 18:18:50 <drobbins>	we will have a solid api for components
Nov 03 18:18:56 <drobbins>	so that components can be developed by different teams
Nov 03 18:18:59 <drobbins>	and interchanged
Nov 03 18:19:38 <drobbins>	this is a key part of avoiding having a small group who are the only ones who really know how to make significant improvements to the code.
Nov 03 18:19:41 <drobbins>	so
Nov 03 18:20:03 <drobbins>	point 1: expect portage-ng to be lean, with a solid plugin architecture. most functionality will be in components or plugins
Nov 03 18:20:18 <drobbins>	goal: foster open development, extensibility, maintainability
Nov 03 18:20:32 <drobbins>	now we can move to language
Nov 03 18:20:52 <drobbins>	the obvious question arises: what languages, component model(s), etc. will be used to implement this thing?
Nov 03 18:21:02 <drobbins>	answer: .NET  (just kidding :)
Nov 03 18:21:36 -->	tantive (nobody@pD9E61847.dip.t-dialin.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:21:39 <--	Obz (~gards1@203.59.210.60) has left #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:21:40 <drobbins>	to answer this, I should talk about the problems we are trying to address
Nov 03 18:21:47 <drobbins>	(the language for portage-ng)
Nov 03 18:21:54 <drobbins>	we want portage-ng code to be very robust
Nov 03 18:22:17 <drobbins>	right now, portage code is quite fragile, just because of the way it evolved
Nov 03 18:22:36 <drobbins>	but we want portage-ng to not just be "robust enough" but incredibly reliable
Nov 03 18:22:50 <drobbins>	the way to do this is to take a close look at our programming methodologies
Nov 03 18:23:00 <drobbins>	currently we are working with pure procedural code
Nov 03 18:23:15 <drobbins>	we are looking at functional and logic programming approaches
Nov 03 18:23:39 <drobbins>	we want portage-ng to be very smart
Nov 03 18:23:57 <drobbins>	and also have the code be even provably correct
Nov 03 18:24:09 <drobbins>	so we are looking at solutions that will allow us to do that.
Nov 03 18:24:26 <drobbins>	we are also interested in offering a plugin architecture that supports at least python and C.
Nov 03 18:24:50 <drobbins>	this will allow for plugins to be written quickly, but be able to be recoded in C for performance when needed.
Nov 03 18:25:43 <drobbins>	if I had to predict where we'll end up
Nov 03 18:25:47 <drobbins>	and right now I can't say for sure
Nov 03 18:26:06 <drobbins>	we will probably use a core language that is suitable for creating an expert system
Nov 03 18:26:24 <port001>	.NET
Nov 03 18:26:34 <drobbins>	so, as a guess: GNU prolog with a plugin model that supports both python and C
Nov 03 18:27:08 <drobbins>	this will allow us to do "AI" programming for the brain of portage-ng, and also have the code very, very tight and functional/logic-based in nature
Nov 03 18:27:32 <drobbins>	and will also allow us to do interesting things :)
Nov 03 18:27:43 <drobbins>	GNU prolog is a very neat toolkit
Nov 03 18:28:09 <drobbins>	http://pauillac.inria.fr/~diaz/gnu-prolog/
Nov 03 18:28:11 <liquidx>	am i not mistaken that ocaml was considered ?
Nov 03 18:28:27 <drobbins>	and is being considered
Nov 03 18:28:37 <drobbins>	like I said, this is just a guess at what we will end up at.
Nov 03 18:28:52 <drobbins>	the weakness of ocaml is that it has limited native machine support
Nov 03 18:29:12 <liquidx>	what are the criterias we are using to select the language to use ?
Nov 03 18:29:45 <drobbins>	we are looking for a good "fit"
Nov 03 18:30:05 <drobbins>	right now, prolog is looking like the best fit because it's logic programming model is good for expert systems and resolving complex dependencies
Nov 03 18:30:34 <drobbins>	and because it is not a procedural language we can avoid side-effects where possible and thus have very robust, provably correct code.
Nov 03 18:31:00 <liquidx>	it would be nice if there were a couple of "desired properties" that could be drawn up as the requirements 
Nov 03 18:31:08 <SwifT>	prolog is a formal language?
Nov 03 18:31:30 <drobbins>	SwifT: pvdabeel is our prolog guy, who isn't here atm
Nov 03 18:31:41 <SwifT>	okay, I'll harass him later
Nov 03 18:31:42 <drobbins>	SwifT: we are working on some code in prolog to see if it will work for us
Nov 03 18:31:53 <drobbins>	(he is, really. He needs to present it to us.)
Nov 03 18:31:59 <SwifT>	:)
Nov 03 18:32:06 <drobbins>	the dep algorithm he is working on is provably corect
Nov 03 18:32:07 <drobbins>	correct
Nov 03 18:32:29 <drobbins>	other goodies portage-ng will have:
Nov 03 18:32:40 <drobbins>	basically everything required to fix existing problems with portage in one fell swoop
Nov 03 18:33:01 <drobbins>	config protection will be a plugin
Nov 03 18:33:09 <drobbins>	.keep files will be no more
Nov 03 18:33:18 <drobbins>	and we'll be able to make policy plugins to ensure that things have the right perms
Nov 03 18:33:33 <SwifT>	nice
Nov 03 18:33:40 <drobbins>	we'll even be able to have dep resolver plugins, since there are multiple ways that portage-ng can resolve deps
Nov 03 18:33:46 <drobbins>	some people might want more rebuilding, others less.
Nov 03 18:33:54 <drobbins>	we don't want to code *algorithms* into ebuilds
Nov 03 18:34:04 <drobbins>	we want to code *relationships/metadata* into ebuilds
Nov 03 18:34:18 <drobbins>	then these relationships can be acted upon in different ways depending on the plugins
Nov 03 18:34:31 <port001>	will current ebuilds need any modification?
Nov 03 18:34:32 <drobbins>	right now, we are shifting way too close to having pure algorithms encoded in our ebuilds
Nov 03 18:34:38 <liquidx>	the reason i ask about a list of "desired properties" is because we can have a very nice formal langauge like prolog, but it could be really slow (performance) and not very popular (high barrier-to-entry) which would hinder people to contribute
Nov 03 18:34:57 <drobbins>	liquidx: like I said, we are going to support plugins in python and C
Nov 03 18:34:58 -->	Method|Work (Method@limbo.snu.edu) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:34:58 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to Method|Work
Nov 03 18:35:42 <drobbins>	liquidx: prolog (if chosen) would provide the "brain" that makes sense of all the metadata and determines the proper actions
Nov 03 18:35:49 <liquidx>	drobbins: yes, so i'm assuming it is going to be feasible to do this sort of plugin architecture, or maybe it could be the other way around, C-core with a prolog plugin that handles dependencies 
Nov 03 18:35:59 <drobbins>	liquidx: it very well could be
Nov 03 18:36:23 <drobbins>	liquidx: although that doesn't look like the best approach, really
Nov 03 18:36:34 <drobbins>	and prolog isn't a very complex language
Nov 03 18:36:38 <liquidx>	i realise that it is still in the very early stages, so my comments are just to make sure all possibilities are covered 
Nov 03 18:37:11 <drobbins>	right
Nov 03 18:37:20 <drobbins>	that's one of the problems of not having a full presentation together
Nov 03 18:37:37 <drobbins>	as soon as I mention something unusual, there is inevitably going to be a knee-jerk reaction against it
Nov 03 18:37:49 <SwifT>	you do have your cupholder?
Nov 03 18:37:56 <drobbins>	we may not choose prolog
Nov 03 18:37:58 <liquidx>	hehe 
Nov 03 18:38:03 <Method|Work>	prolog?
Nov 03 18:38:08 <Method|Work>	whose idea was that?
Nov 03 18:38:13 <drobbins>	see?
Nov 03 18:38:17 <port001>	hehe
Nov 03 18:38:22 <Method|Work>	:)
Nov 03 18:38:32 <drobbins>	thank God he smiled
Nov 03 18:38:33 <drobbins>	:)
Nov 03 18:38:39 <SwifT>	hehe
Nov 03 18:38:42 <drobbins>	the point is
Nov 03 18:38:57 <drobbins>	we are looking at side-stepping many of the problems endemic to traditional procedural code
Nov 03 18:39:00 <Method|Work>	i'm curious, prolog has uses in AI and GA's but i never thought about it being useful in something like portage
Nov 03 18:39:02 <Method|Work>	interesting...
Nov 03 18:39:05 <drobbins>	with plugins, and functional/logic programming
Nov 03 18:39:21 <drobbins>	Method|Work: it's actually a surprisingly good fit
Nov 03 18:39:35 <drobbins>	Method|Work: you can think of the portage tree as a knowledge base
Nov 03 18:39:47 <Method|Work>	it would be an odd extra dependancy too
Nov 03 18:39:50 <drobbins>	then portage-ng would be an expert system to operate on the data in the knowledge base
Nov 03 18:39:56 <drobbins>	nah, gnu prolog can be compiled
Nov 03 18:40:12 <Method|Work>	but it'd require the compiler to compile portage
Nov 03 18:40:16 <drobbins>	probably good to overview some of the neat things in GNU prolog
Nov 03 18:40:20 <drobbins>	yep
Nov 03 18:40:24 <drobbins>	1) it can be compiled
Nov 03 18:40:27 <drobbins>	2) it can run bytecode
Nov 03 18:40:31 <drobbins>	3) it has an interpreter
Nov 03 18:40:34 <drobbins>	4) it has a C api
Nov 03 18:40:42 <drobbins>	5) it has a python api
Nov 03 18:40:45 <Method|Work>	java has all that
Nov 03 18:41:00 <SwifT>	java cannot be proven formally
Nov 03 18:41:09 <Method|Work>	SwifT: eh?
Nov 03 18:41:10 <SwifT>	well, not easily that is (ofcourse, every algo can)
Nov 03 18:41:31 <drobbins>	anyway, work continues on a general architecture for portage-ng
Nov 03 18:41:39 <SwifT>	Method|Work: afaik is prolog a formal language, making it easier to (mathematically) proof the algorithm working
Nov 03 18:41:49 <drobbins>	Method|Work: you'll need to read the logs to see the other parts you missed
Nov 03 18:42:01 <Method|Work>	did the meeting start earlier?
Nov 03 18:42:07 <drobbins>	oh, we will also have zeroconf ('rendezvous') support in portage-ng
Nov 03 18:42:24 <drobbins>	in fact, we are pretty much ready to make a patch to the current portage to add zeroconf support
Nov 03 18:42:25 <liquidx>	Method|Work: actually started a little late .. 18:05 UTC or so 
Nov 03 18:42:34 <Method|Work>	what time is it now?
Nov 03 18:42:34 <drobbins>	this would allow portage to detect rsync and distfiles mirrors on your LAN
Nov 03 18:42:42 <Method|Work>	i thought it normally started at 1
Nov 03 18:42:45 <SwifT>	18.43 UTC
Nov 03 18:42:46 <liquidx>	Method|Work: 18:45 
Nov 03 18:42:51 <Method|Work>	hrm
Nov 03 18:42:54 <liquidx>	oops, my clock is a bit off 
Nov 03 18:43:23 <seemant>	drobbins: that patch available for testing somewhere?
Nov 03 18:43:25 <liquidx>	drobbins: what is the time scale for portage-ng to develop? 
Nov 03 18:43:27 <Method|Work>	DST.. my bad
Nov 03 18:43:30 <drobbins>	seemant: lisa has it
Nov 03 18:43:42 <Method|Work>	i can't be here until 12:30 on mondays anyway, and i have class at 1:30
Nov 03 18:43:44 <drobbins>	seemant: she has the zeroconf tools that work, but we don't have a patch yet (would be pretty easy to write)
Nov 03 18:43:55 <seemant>	drobbins: gotcha
Nov 03 18:43:59 <bcowan>	wow that would be great
Nov 03 18:44:00 <drobbins>	liquidx: the time scale is to get a general roadmap and portage-ng page online before the end of the year
Nov 03 18:44:12 <port001>	drobbins: I assume we will be using a database?
Nov 03 18:44:17 <liquidx>	drobbins: right 
Nov 03 18:44:34 <carpaski>	port001: Not necessarily.
Nov 03 18:44:43 <drobbins>	I have a general architecture pdf somewhere
Nov 03 18:44:45 <drobbins>	just a diagram
Nov 03 18:44:49 <drobbins>	lemme see if I can find it
Nov 03 18:44:57 <g2boojum>	port001: I'm guessing that would fall under the "plugin" category.
Nov 03 18:45:26 <port001>	g2boojum: would it be the default though?
Nov 03 18:46:35 <liquidx>	i think at this time, i can declare the floor open for questions , if it wasn't already open before
Nov 03 18:47:18 <genone>	I guess I should pay a bit more attention to my AI classes then
Nov 03 18:47:19 <liquidx>	and i'd like the thank drobbins who prepared the presentation on portage-ng on such short notice and also g2boojum for bringing up the inter project communication
Nov 03 18:47:41 <drobbins>	http://dev.gentoo.org/~drobbins/portage-ng.pdf
Nov 03 18:47:53 <drobbins>	just a simple outline of what we're looking for for architecture atm
Nov 03 18:48:05 <drobbins>	:)
Nov 03 18:48:32 <seemant>	very nice
Nov 03 18:48:50 <port001>	Will this be the first meeting to go public? I know many people would be interested in whats been said about -ng. Or is it wise to wait untill the blueprints are ready?
Nov 03 18:49:36 <drobbins>	seemant: wanna comment on that?
Nov 03 18:49:45 <liquidx>	port001: i dunno, i think that depends on devrel and userrel ..
Nov 03 18:50:31 <drobbins>	to answer an earlier question, portage-ng will be compatible with ebuilds
Nov 03 18:50:52 <drobbins>	but we'll likely also have a newer, better, faster format for metadata
Nov 03 18:51:01 <g2boojum>	Devrel dropped the ball on that somewhat, I'm afraid.  My fault, as I didn't follow-up w/ devrel to get things formalized.
Nov 03 18:51:11 <drobbins>	databases will be supported, but we need to have a good on-disk default so that users can easily access build scripts, etc.
Nov 03 18:51:33 <drobbins>	one interesting supported thing is to have GNU prolog hook into mysql directly
Nov 03 18:51:43 <seemant>	drobbins: I'm digging the plugin architecture mentality on it -- allows for portage itself to be customised and allow choice
Nov 03 18:51:50 <drobbins>	this would allow GNU prolog to use mysql as a back-end for all its relationships/code
Nov 03 18:51:58 <drobbins>	seemant: yep
Nov 03 18:52:35 <drobbins>	there is a good prolog tutorial here:
Nov 03 18:52:37 <drobbins>	http://www.cs.may.ie/~jpower/Courses/PROLOG/
Nov 03 18:52:40 <genone>	drobbins: can the further discussion about portage-ng be moved to the gentoo-portage-dev list ?
Nov 03 18:52:44 <g2boojum>	Are there any objections to publicizing this meeting, and we'll have a formal procedure for the next one?
Nov 03 18:52:48 <drobbins>	genone: sure
Nov 03 18:52:55 <drobbins>	g2boojum: I don't have any objections
Nov 03 18:53:10 <g2boojum>	drobbins: k, thx!
Nov 03 18:53:13 <seemant>	off-topic: our website install doc links are giving people 403's
Nov 03 18:53:15 <drobbins>	g2boojum: having a nice summary for the next GWN would be a good start, with a link to the logs
Nov 03 18:53:19 <avenj>	seemant: only on one web node
Nov 03 18:53:22 <avenj>	seemant: which is out of the rotation now
Nov 03 18:53:26 <seemant>	avenj: gotcha thanks
Nov 03 18:53:35 <avenj>	according to klieber, anyway
Nov 03 18:53:38 <port001>	g2boojum: I don't have any, but I'm expecting those knee jerks drobbins was talking about
Nov 03 18:53:57 <seemant>	port's right
Nov 03 18:54:16 <seemant>	everyone put on flame retardant suits
Nov 03 18:54:27 *	SwifT 's asbest suit is on
Nov 03 18:54:39 <port001>	seemant: I'm also not getting new on the main page
Nov 03 18:54:40 <g2boojum>	seemant: That's why we write a summary to go w/ the logs.  *Grin*
Nov 03 18:55:02 <port001>	*news
Nov 03 18:55:23 <liquidx>	g2boojum: are you going to write a summary for this meeting for -core, or should i do it seperately from the one we're going to publicize?
Nov 03 18:56:24 <g2boojum>	liquidx: You're quite welcome to write both, if you wish.  Otherwise I won't get to it until tomorrow.
Nov 03 18:56:47 <liquidx>	g2boojum: i'll leave it in your capable hands then ;)
Nov 03 18:56:58 <g2boojum>	liquidx: k
Nov 03 18:58:10 -->	pauldv|away (~pauldv@callisto.cs.kun.nl) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 18:58:14 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to pauldv|away
Nov 03 18:59:23 <SwifT>	pauldv|away: 1800 UTC = 1900 GMT+1 :)
Nov 03 18:59:29 ---	genone is now known as genone|food
Nov 03 19:01:11 <g2boojum>	liquidx: Time to adjourn?
Nov 03 19:01:16 <drobbins>	http://www.byte.com/art/9502/sec13/art3.htm
Nov 03 19:01:33 <liquidx>	g2boojum: yep, seems like a good time to adjourn the meeting.
Nov 03 19:01:55 <--	SwifT (~Sven@D5E06E28.kabel.telenet.be) has left #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 19:03:09 <--	rajiv has quit (Remote closed the connection)
Nov 03 19:03:43 -->	rajiv (~irc@bronze.imagineblue.com) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 19:07:19 <--	port001 (~port001@cpc2-nott2-4-0-cust81.nott.cable.ntl.com) has left #gentoo-meetings ("Leaving")
Nov 03 19:08:25 <--	pauldv|away (~pauldv@callisto.cs.kun.nl) has left #gentoo-meetings (""Eve's Avatar - Avatar's Eve"")
Nov 03 19:14:33 <seemant>	great job, liquidx
Nov 03 19:14:36 <seemant>	thanks for leading the meeting
Nov 03 19:15:20 <rajiv>	damn
Nov 03 19:15:30 <rajiv>	someone log the meeting ?
Nov 03 19:25:56 ---	genone|food is now known as genone
Nov 03 19:34:57 -->	pvdabeel (~pvdabeel@C382892E.kabel.telenet.be) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 19:34:57 ---	ChanServ gives channel operator status to pvdabeel
Nov 03 19:35:45 <pvdabeel>	I take it I am too late for todays meeting?
Nov 03 19:35:57 <rajiv>	ya
Nov 03 19:36:06 <pvdabeel>	sorry, traffic was killing me
Nov 03 19:36:17 <pvdabeel>	anyone has log?
Nov 03 19:36:31 <pvdabeel>	I'm especially interested in the part about portage-ng
Nov 03 19:37:02 <rajiv>	i lost my log... xchat quit
Nov 03 19:40:28 -->	genone_ (~genone@dsl-213-023-239-033.arcor-ip.net) has joined #gentoo-meetings
Nov 03 19:42:18 <--	genone has quit (Nick collision from services.)
Nov 03 19:42:23 ---	genone_ is now known as genone
Nov 03 19:43:19 <seemant>	liquidx or g2boojum will post a log to -core or -dev I believe
Nov 03 19:47:03 <liquidx>	seemant: yep, i've got the log, g2boojum will post a summary tomorrow 
Nov 03 19:48:23 <g2boojum>	liquidx: Would you e-mail me a copy of the log, please?  
Nov 03 19:48:44 <liquidx>	g2boojum: yep sure .. 
Nov 03 19:49:09 <g2boojum>	liquidx: Thanks
