--- Log opened Mon Nov 17 12:06:19 2003
12:06 -!- iggy [~brian@65.248.109.87] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:06 -!- Irssi: #gentoo-meetings: Total of 13 nicks [5 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 8 normal]
12:06 -!- tseng [~tseng@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:06 -!- Irssi: Join to #gentoo-meetings was synced in 0 secs
12:06 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o iggy] by ChanServ
12:06 <@ drobbins> yay
12:06 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o tseng] by ChanServ
12:06 <@    tseng> hmm, hi guys
12:07 <@ drobbins> hiya
12:07 <@    SwifT> hi tseng 
12:07 <@    tseng> sorry i was behind the time!
12:07 <@    SwifT> or time was in front of you...
12:07 <@    tseng> we start in 15minutes then?
12:07 <@    tseng> wait
12:07 <@    tseng> my clock was off too =/
12:08 <@    SwifT> heh
12:08 <@  klieber> we started 8 minutes ago :)
12:08 <@ carpaski> And '0 */4 * * * ntpdate -p8 tick.usno.navy.mil'
12:08 <@    tseng> ah, terribly sorry guys
12:08 <@    tseng> i am now present, whats the current topic?
12:08 <@  klieber> whatever you decide it to be
12:09 <@  klieber> you're leading the show
12:09 <@    SwifT> we started with a break
12:09 <@  klieber> what's first on the agenda?
12:09 -!- Azarah [~azarah@wblv-224-88.telkomadsl.co.za] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:09 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o Azarah] by ChanServ
12:09 <@    SwifT> then we continued with saying nothing
12:09 <@    SwifT> then you dropped by
12:09 <@    tseng> well then, lets start by making sure everyone makes it here
12:09 <@ drobbins> tseng: fortunately, some managers were a bit late too so it worked out well
12:09 <@    tseng> yes, i see that ;)
12:09 <@  klieber> we're missing seemant and pauldv
12:09 -!- pauldv [~pauldv@callisto.cs.kun.nl] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:09 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o pauldv] by ChanServ
12:09 <@  klieber> spooky
12:09 <@ drobbins> I'll call seemant
12:09 <@   Azarah> seemant is still sleeping or something
12:10 -!- coredumb [~coredumb@emu.gentoo.oregonstate.edu] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:10 <@   pauldv> sorry I'm late
12:10 <@    tseng> well since drobbins did manage to make it today
12:10 <@  klieber> pauldv: we're still getting organized, so no worries
12:11 <@    tseng> he is up first with catalyst
12:11 <@    tseng> i think we can wait a moment for seemant?
12:11 <@ drobbins> he's asleep but being woken up now
12:11 <@    SwifT> does he do nightshifts?
12:12 <@ drobbins> in #gentoo-dev, yes
12:12 <@iggy> no, he's just weird
12:12 <@    SwifT> hehe
12:12 <@    tseng> as long as no one is in a rush, im sure we'd all like his company ;)
12:12 -!- seemant [~seemant@ca-stmnca-cuda1-blade2a-82.stmnca.adelphia.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:12 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o seemant] by ChanServ
12:12 <@ drobbins> he's heading to the computer
12:12 <@ drobbins> there he is
12:12 <@   Azarah> ill rather sleep during the day as well
12:12 <@    tseng> there we go
12:13 <@    tseng> greets seemant
12:13 <@   pauldv> SwifT: extreme ones at that. He seems to be online when I'm too, but I'm UTC+1
12:13 <@  seemant> hi
12:13 <@    SwifT> hi seemant :)
12:13 <@  seemant> thanks d
12:13 <@   Azarah> ello seemant 
12:13 <@    SwifT> pauldv: yes, indeed :)
12:13 <@  seemant> hi :)
12:13 <@    tseng> everyone ready?
12:13 <@    SwifT> seatbelts on
12:13 <@    tseng> ok, up first is drobbins with an update on catalyst
12:13 <@    tseng> drobbins, take it away!
12:13 <@ drobbins> whee
12:14 <@ drobbins> first resources
12:14 <@ drobbins> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/releng/catalyst/
12:14 <@ drobbins> catalyst is a rewrite of stager and Zhen's original catalyst code
12:14 -!- karltk [~karltk@storm.boblycat.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:15 <@ drobbins> the purpose of catalyst is to build stages, package sets, and livecds
12:15 <@ drobbins> not only build them
12:15 <@ drobbins> but build them reliably, repeatably
12:15 <@ drobbins> historically, we have had different build scripts for different arches
12:15 <@ drobbins> from now on, we need to use catalyst
12:15 <@ drobbins> is this fascism? no. I'll explain
12:16 <@ drobbins> we are getting to the point where we are going to be able to add "higher levels of functionality" to catalyst
12:16 <@ drobbins> for example, I am planning to write a tinderbox plugin for catalyst
12:16 <@ drobbins> others (yes, even plain gentoo users) are going to be relying on catalyst to build up entire customized systems
12:17 <@ drobbins> if an arch uses catalyst, then they benefit from these changes and users can rebuild an entire arch using catalyst
12:17 <@ drobbins> if an arch doesn't use catalyst, then these additional capabilities will not be available to users
12:17 <@ drobbins> this is particularly important for QA and livecds
12:17 <@ drobbins> livecds, so users can rebuild a livecd for any arch
12:17 -!- scandium [scandium@p50808DEB.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:17 <@ drobbins> now, what if catalyst doesn't meet your needs?
12:18 <@ drobbins> file a bug. catalyst needs to support all arches. we will make sure the needed functionality is in the code.
12:18 <@ drobbins> it is all in highly modular python with just a bit of bash.
12:18 <@ drobbins> it uses OOP, subclasses, and plugins to make it highly extendable
12:19 <@ drobbins> catalyst needs to support everything well, so don't be shy about letting us know about bugs
12:19 <@ drobbins> ok, now how to use it.
12:19 <@ drobbins> very soon, there will be a catalyst ebuild. at this time, you can emerge catalyst and then find docs in /usr/share/docs/catalyst-x.y
12:20 <@ drobbins> for now, it's in cvs
12:20 <@ drobbins> in gentoo/src/catalyst/
12:20 <@ drobbins> to use it, check out the tree, and read the README
12:20 <@ drobbins> I'll review some of its functionality and design
12:20 <@ drobbins> catalyst was designed to "capture" all relevant details for building, so that the build could be repeated on another person's PC with identical results
12:21 <@ drobbins> if a build isn't repeatable, then we don't have a high quality system, so this is a very key feature of catalyst
12:21 <@ drobbins> catalyst command-lines look like this
12:21 <@ drobbins> # catalyst foo=bar meep=cow etc.
12:21 <@ drobbins> the arguments can get quite long so we have something called "spec" files.
12:22 <@ drobbins> these are not RPM spec files, but catalyst spec files.
12:22 <@ drobbins> You can see some in the examples/ directory
12:22 <@ drobbins> here is one such example:
12:22 <@ drobbins> root@ht examples # cat x86-stage1-20031102.spec 
12:22 <@ drobbins> subarch: x86
12:22 <@ drobbins> version_stamp: 20031102
12:22 <@ drobbins> target: stage1
12:22 <@ drobbins> rel_type: default
12:22 <@ drobbins> rel_version: 1.4
12:22 <@ drobbins> snapshot: 20031101
12:22 <@ drobbins> source_subpath: default-x86-1.4/stage2-x86-20031101
12:22 <@ drobbins> the syntax is pretty easy to follow
12:23 <@ drobbins> I mentioned that catalyst also supports GRP sets, and if you look at examples/x86-grp-20031102.spec you'll see some neat stuff
12:23 <@ drobbins> note that all GRP use vars and pacakges are defined *in the spec*
12:24 <@ drobbins> why's this? so the build can be repeatable. Send someone the "starter" stage, the portage snapshot you used, and the spec, and they should be able to perfectly duplicate your work on their box.
12:24 <@   pauldv> drobbins: what about changing ebuild files?
12:24 <@ drobbins> it also of course allows for arch leads, devs and users to customize stuff
12:24 <@ drobbins> pauldv: that would be done in the portage snapshot used to build
12:24 <@ drobbins> pauldv: you would make the changes, then do a catalyst target=snapshot to grab the snapshot
12:24 <@    SwifT> why not using <cat>/<name> instead of just <name>?
12:25 <@ drobbins> then if others wanted to repeat your work, you would need to also make clear that you are using a customized snapshot.
12:25 <@ drobbins> SwifT: that is also possible
12:25 <@   pauldv> drobbins: ah, so with a snapshot. Then indeed there shouldn't be a problem. I agree with swift, use cat too
12:25 <@ drobbins> SwifT: I used short-hand, you can also use cat/name or >=foo/bar-3.0 etc.
12:25 <@    SwifT> ok
12:25 <@ drobbins> for an arch to be supported, all that's needed is for a plugin to be written.
12:26 <@ drobbins> arch plugins live in arch/
12:26 <@ drobbins> we currently have plugins for x86, ppc and amd64
12:26 <@ drobbins> they are easy to create :)
12:26 <@ drobbins> catalyst is also pretty advanced.
12:26 <@SwifT> does catalyst build the livecd kernel?
12:27 <@ drobbins> good question
12:27 <@ drobbins> right now, catalyst can't build livecds (that will be added in the next 2 weeks)
12:27 <@drobbins> in order to make things more maintainable, genkernel will be used to build the livecd kernel
12:27 <@ drobbins> it has been enhanced to support livecd initrds
12:27 <@ drobbins> this is a great thing for maintainability, because it means we don't have 2 separate initrd efforts
12:27 <@SwifT> so... genkernel supports other arches too now?
12:27 <@ drobbins> and bug fixes automatically propogate to both
12:28 -!- brad_mssw [~brad@shop.mcve.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:28 <@ drobbins> SwifT: in the process of supporting multiple arches, not sure on status of that.
12:28 <@ drobbins> SwifT: you could ask brad_mssw
12:28 <@    SwifT> ok
12:28 <@ drobbins> SwifT: it does need to support multiple arches though, yes
12:28 <@    SwifT> I'll do that when you're finished :)
12:29 <@ drobbins> catalyst is ready to be used and tested by devs
12:29 <@ drobbins> it is quite safe
12:29 -!- spyderous [~spyderous@sfa234252.richmond.edu] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:29 <@ drobbins> one of the problems we had with stager is that it would use bind mounts
12:29 <@ drobbins> if the script aborted, the bind mounts could still be mounted
12:29 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v brad_mssw] by tseng
12:29 <@ drobbins> then when you restarted stager and it cleaned the build dir, it could wipe out all your distfiles
12:29 <@ drobbins> catalyst is smart
12:29 <@tseng> perhaps brad_mssw can comment on genkernel on alternate arches?
12:29 <@ drobbins> first, it has pretty extensive exception handling to auto-unmount bind mounts
12:30 <@ drobbins> lemme finish this point
12:30 <@    tseng> right
12:30 <@ drobbins> beyond this, it will detect if bind mounts are already mounted in a dir before it cleans it
12:30 -!- pvdabeel [~pvdabeel@C382892E.kabel.telenet.be] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:30 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+o pvdabeel] by ChanServ
12:30 <@ drobbins> and if they are, it won't abort but unmount the bind mounts and then continue :) so it's really smart
12:30 <@ drobbins> ok, I'll pause
12:31 <@    tseng> sorry, i felt that would be most relevant here
12:31 <@ drobbins> s'ok
12:31 <@tseng> brad_mssw: could you give us any details on using genkernel on non-x86?
12:32 <@ drobbins> maybe he's just loggin or afk (looks like he's logged in from work)
12:33 -!- solar [~solar@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
12:33 <@ drobbins> I'll open up for catalyst-specific Q&A
12:33 <@tseng> hmm, yes, interested parties can ask brad about genkernel later then
12:33 <@    SwifT> drobbins: what is tinderbox?
12:33 <@ drobbins> if that's ok
12:33 <@    tseng> certainly
12:33 <@ drobbins> SwifT: tinderbox is something that builds every package up from a stage3 and logs ones that don't build
12:33 <+brad_mssw> tseng: genkernel does work on amd64, though there are a few needed tweaks
12:34 <@ drobbins> SwifT: for QA
12:34 <@    SwifT> nice
12:34 <+brad_mssw> basically a seperate busybox config is needed for each arch
12:34 <+brad_mssw> err, moved onto something else, sorry
12:34 <@ drobbins> s'ok
12:34 <@drobbins> feel free to ask genkernel questions too
12:34 <@    SwifT> drobbins: does the use of catalyst change anything for the users of stages/livecds?
12:34 <@    SwifT> (those who don't want to develop anything)
12:35 <@ drobbins> SwifT: in the future, maybe.
12:35 <@ drobbins> SwifT: there are some problems that users get when boostrapping that we don't get with catalyst, since it uses a more controlled environment
12:35 <@   Azarah> drobbins: what about needed packages on the 'host' system - will catalist merge, or ask you to do so ?
12:35 <+brad_mssw> drobbins: has the livecd support been incorporated into catalyst yet?
12:35 <@ drobbins> SwifT: these improvements could be rolled back into our manual boostrap process to improve it
12:35 <@ drobbins> Azarah: ask you to do so
12:35 <@ drobbins> brad_mssw: not yet, eta is 2 weeks
12:35 <@   Azarah> drobbins: ok, thanks
12:36 <@  klieber> drobbins: question from ramereth: is it possible to use catalyst to build across platforms? (cross compile support)
12:36 <+brad_mssw> drobbins: k
12:36 <@ drobbins> klieber: yes, currently 32-bit x86 on amd64 is supported
12:36 <@ drobbins> klieber: general cross-compile isn't
12:36 <@  klieber> ok, thanks
12:36 <@ drobbins> 32-bit x86 on ia64 will be supported at some point too
12:36 <@    SwifT> drobbins: will catalyst replace the stage{1,2,3}-method we currently use to install Gentoo with?
12:37 <@ drobbins> SwifT: initially no
12:37 <@ drobbins> SwifT: in the future, I was thinking that it *could*
12:37 <@ drobbins> but I don't know
12:37 <@   Azarah> SwifT: its rather to create those stages (but later users say of clusters can do their own)
12:37 <@    SwifT> ok
12:37 <@ drobbins> it will definitely allow us to make things better for manual building up of stuff
12:38 <+brad_mssw> drobbins: are you rewriting the livecd scripts from scratch, or are you incorporating what currently exists ?
12:38 <@ drobbins> ideally, I want to get the 2 approaches eventually using the same code for QA reasons
12:38 <@ drobbins> brad_mssw: both?
12:38 <+brad_mssw> drobbins: k, I'll message you later about my changes to the current ones
12:38 <@ drobbins> brad_mssw: framework will be from scratch, but specific tweaks for each arch that currently exist will be included
12:38 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+v karltk] by Azarah
12:38 <@ drobbins> also I should mention
12:38 <+   karltk> drobbins: thinking tinderbox: does catalyst plug into portage in any way? can I use to figure out dep-trees for a given pkg, and restore pre-built deps from .tbz2s, instead of building them from scratch? 
12:39 <@ drobbins> for livecd stuff, we are trying to "outsource" as much code as possible
12:39 <@ drobbins> karltk: one sec
12:39 <@ drobbins> for initscript stuff, we are trying to get all that stuff into baselayout proper
12:39 <@drobbins> for initrd stuff, we are trying to get all that into genkernel
12:39 <@ drobbins> so arch leads should keep that in mind. there may be some work you can do in that area already
12:39 <+brad_mssw> drobbins: right, the current livecd scripts for 2.6 kernel use a modified genkernel
12:40 <@ drobbins> karltk: I'm not sure what you mean
12:40 <@ drobbins> karltk: first sentence I understand, the others no
12:40 <@ drobbins> not
12:40 <+   karltk> drobbins: one of the problem we currently fail to easily detect are hidden deps in packages.
12:41 <@ drobbins> ok
12:41 <+   karltk> drobbins: that is, when we as devs test if a package works, we usually have a whole slew of packages installed that may not be in the RDEPEND/DEPEND of the package we test.
12:41 <@ drobbins> right
12:41 <@ drobbins> ok
12:41 <@ drobbins> catalyst doesn't directly plug in to the portage python code
12:41 <+   karltk> drobbins: so, what I want to have the tinderbox do, is make certain _only_ the actual deps are actually installed when each package is built.
12:41 <@ drobbins> but, doing what you're talking about should be no problem
12:41 <@ drobbins> there are a lot of approaches we could use for tinderbox, but this is what I was thinking:
12:42 <@ drobbins> right
12:42 <@ drobbins> this is the algo I was thinking
12:42 <@ drobbins> unpack stage3
12:42 <@ drobbins> create pristine copy of stage3 in /tmp/foo
12:42 <@ drobbins> emerge package for testing
12:42 <@ drobbins> see if it build
12:42 <@ drobbins> then rsync from /tmp/foo to /
12:42 <@ drobbins> to get the stage3 pristine again, quickly, and with the --delete option
12:42 <@ drobbins> then try building the next pkg
12:43 <@ drobbins> and it would be able to use a .tbz2 cache to speed things up for already-built deps
12:43 <+   karltk> yeah, but you don't want to rebuild all deps from scratch each time, I'm figuring..
12:43 <@ drobbins> so this is very do-able. not trivial, but not hard either
12:43 <+   karltk> yeah, exactly.
12:43 <@ drobbins> the pkgcache stuff is all working already
12:43 <@ drobbins> so it's no biggie.
12:43 <@    tseng> alright, that sounds like drobbins has yet again come up w/ something that just plain rocks ;)
12:43 <+   karltk> last time around we hacked on the tinderbox, I wrote a "minimally intensive" algo that calculated the "shortest path" for a full rebuild.
12:43 <@    tseng> anyone mind if we move on to SwifT ?
12:44 <@ drobbins> tseng: :)
12:44 <@    tseng> alright, catalyst is moving along nicely, we all know where to find drobbins for further questions
12:44 <@ drobbins> zhen also helped make it happen
12:45 <@ drobbins> and pvdabeel helped with design comments
12:45 <@    tseng> id like to hand the floor now to SwifT, who would like to introduce the new Gentoo Handbook install sections
12:45 <@    SwifT> okay... the part on "Installing Gentoo" in the Gentoo Handbook (available at http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/handbook) has been completed for some time... 
12:45 <@    SwifT> I've received almost zero negative feedback and lots of positive on t
12:45 <@    SwifT> this
12:46 <@    SwifT> several users already tip others to use the handbook instructions, like http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.user/54500 today
12:46 <@    SwifT> the instructions in the handbook should work for all architectures (all gentoo-$arch-install.xml guides have been incorporated)
12:47 <@    SwifT> what I want is to get this out as the official installation guides, and have the others online for reference purposes (but only for a short while)
12:47 <@    SwifT> so... any questions about this? :)
12:47 <+brad_mssw> SwifT: yes
12:47 <@ drobbins> one comment
12:47 <@ drobbins> go ahead brad
12:47 <@    SwifT> go ahead
12:47 <+brad_mssw> SwifT: about other arches other than x86 .. mainly with amd64 you need to emerge grub-static
12:48 <+brad_mssw> SwifT: as grub doesn't compile on amd64
12:48 <+brad_mssw> how would we go about incorporating something like that into the guide ?
12:48 <@    SwifT> brad_mssw: other arches are incorporated... sparc, hppa, ppc and others don't even use grub
12:48 <+brad_mssw> I see you have a 'grub' section already
12:48 <@    SwifT> brad_mssw: if such choices are need to be made, the user is informed about this
12:48 <+brad_mssw> right, but since it _does_ use grub, do we just need to make a 'grub-static' section then ?
12:49 <@    SwifT> brad_mssw: we can use a "Alternative: Using GRUB for amd64", or have a paragraph inside the existing section
12:49 <@    SwifT> brad_mssw: it also depends on wether or not grub-static is temporarily or not
12:50 <+brad_mssw> SwifT: yeah, I'm thinking about a paragraph inside the existing section
12:50 <@    SwifT> brad_mssw: I'm sure a solution is easily found
12:50 <+brad_mssw> SwifT: and it may be semi-permanent unless I can get around all the issues, main one being obj-copy on amd64 isn't friendly with grub's configuration
12:50 <+brad_mssw> SwifT: and how do I update this doc?  Do I need to submit a paragraph to someone?
12:50 <@    SwifT> brad_mssw: yes, use bugs.gentoo.org, Docs-user, Handbook
12:50 <@   Azarah> what about lilo ?
12:51 <@    tseng> sounds like we need a good review of the doc by our arch folks before replacing the arch specific guides?
12:51 <+brad_mssw> Azarah: was that a question for me ?
12:51 <@    SwifT> all documentation related bugreports and enhancement requests should go through bgo
12:51 <@   Azarah> yes, sorry
12:51 <@    SwifT> tseng: all arch editors have been asked to review it
12:51 <+brad_mssw> Azarah: lilo will work, if you have a 32bit compile ... non compile natively in 64bit
12:51 <@    SwifT> tseng: several of them replied positively
12:51 <@    tseng> SwifT: good news ;)
12:51 <@    SwifT> tseng: the current situation is that the other installation guides are hardly updated (x86 not taken into account)
12:52 <@   Azarah> brad_mssw: ah, so only multilib setups
12:52 <+brad_mssw> Azarah: right ;(
12:52 <@    SwifT> tseng: so using the handbook as primary installation source can only improve the situation
12:52 <@  klieber> I've got a meeting coming up soon -- any chance we can keep moving?
12:52 <+brad_mssw> Azarah: I'm researching other solutions though
12:52 <@ drobbins> SwifT: my comment is....
12:52 <@   Azarah> brad_mssw: is there a bug about the grub failing ?
12:52 <@ drobbins> SwifT: I love the new handbook, I think that it's the best thing to happen to gentoo docs maybe ever
12:53 <@    tseng> klieber: cetainly, you have the last point
12:53 <@ drobbins> SwifT: but would it be possible to continue to maintain the "old" install guides until we release the next version of Gentoo in January?
12:53 <@  klieber> tseng: that's the QA point?
12:53 <@    tseng> ok guys, please do continue this later, but klieber is our next presenter ;)
12:53 <+brad_mssw> Azarah: no, didn't see a need, I've got to contact th grub developers, as it's not Gentoo-specific
12:53 <@    SwifT> drobbins: yes, no problem... 
12:53 <@    tseng> so, klieber is now up with some points on QA
12:54 <@   Azarah> brad_mssw: ah, ok ... they not planning on fixing ?
12:54 <@ drobbins> SwifT: ok, cool. the moment the next release is made, I have no problem dropping the maintenance of the old docs
12:54 <+brad_mssw> Azarah: don't know yet, haven't put much time into it
12:54 <@   Azarah> [08:55] [nemo_work!~chatzilla@65.121.213.234] Would like to note an error in gentoo x86 install script.
12:54 <@   Azarah>    fairly serious.  may I have voice?
12:54 <@   Azarah> drobbins: ^^ ?
12:54 <@  klieber> I simply wanted to revive the discussion on this topic and was hoping those in the know could provide a status update on where things stood atm?
12:54 <@  klieber> errors in the install guide should be filed on bugs.g.o
12:54 <@ drobbins> Azarah: can he wait until Q&A?
12:54 <@  seemant> klieber: ok, the way I understand it is as follows
12:55 <@  seemant> klieber: releng is handling the initial QA (see above about catalyst etc), and developing tools (ditto last parentheses)
12:55 <@  seemant> klieber: additionally, I've been trying to guage interest and ideas in #gentoo-qa for the last month or so
12:55 <@   Azarah> drobbins: not my  call, so that why pasted
12:56 <@  seemant> the main interested parties are chamelion (non-dev), wsilich and genone
12:56 <@  seemant> however, this week, I'm hoping to talk to a few more interested people (foser as an example) to see what we can actively put into motion
12:57 <@  seemant> as I recall, the discussion when we talked of herds initially was to push QA all the way to each individual developer -> herd team lead -> tlp lead -> qa team -> releng
12:57 <@  seemant> klieber: short answer, nothing active right now
12:58 <@   Azarah> seemant: like always, you can shout if anything specific, I just do not want to make more commitments than I know I can handle
12:58 <@  klieber> ok -- just wanted to make sure someone was at least thinking about it
12:58 <@  klieber> which it sounds like they are.
12:58 <@  seemant> Azarah: yes :)
12:58 <@   pauldv> except that we are a good way of creating herds and the teams to manage them. Currently however the links between the teams and their parent projects are missing in most cases
12:58 <@  seemant> klieber: help is and would be appreciate
12:58 <@  seemant> pauldv: correct
12:59 <@  klieber> seemant: maybe we can post something in the GWN asking for volunteers.  we can talk more about that later if you're interested
12:59 <@  klieber> anyway, that's all I had for that topic
12:59 <@    tseng> alright, thanks kurt!
12:59 <@   pauldv> when we have a desktop lead, many teams can be put under that project or new subprojects of desktop can be created for the purposed. After that we will need to look at other groups like servers/daemons
13:00 <@    tseng> if no objections, id like to open Q&A to everyone, people seem especially curious about catalyst, and a few more points on the install guide
13:00 <@  seemant> klieber: yep definitely
13:00 <@   pauldv> open it up
13:01 <@ drobbins> uh
13:01 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by tseng
13:01 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+m] by ChanServ
13:01 <@ drobbins> yay
13:01 <@ drobbins> hrm
13:01 <@    avenj> sec
13:01 <@    tseng> erm
13:01 <@    tseng> thanks avenj 
13:01 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [+snt] by ChanServ
13:01 <@   pauldv> tseng: someone with access must open it
13:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by avenj
13:02 <@    tseng> i see that ;)
13:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-meetings [-m] by ChanServ
13:02 <  Ramereth> yay
13:02 <+   karltk> seemant, klieber: wrt to the QA, I think better project and documentation tracking should be a priority. we seem comfortable about using bugzilla to handle the individual bugs, and bug-wranglers appear to do their job satisfactorily, however finding out who's working on what always requires some mailing/msgs and not even then is it always possible.
13:02 -!- Obz [~gards1@i205-008.nv.iinet.net.au] has left #gentoo-meetings []
13:03 <@  seemant> karltk: that's what herds and metadata.xml's are supposed to solve
13:03 <@    tseng> that is a current work in progress, metadata gives accountablility to a group of developers
13:03 <@  klieber> karltk: I guess I feel we should try to catch as many bugs as possible (through QA) rather than forcing our users to suffer through them so they can report bugs on bugs.g.o
13:03 < sj8trunks> did anyone even bring up gentoo-stable?
13:03 <  Ramereth> drobbins: how hard will it be to get cross compile support for the other archs on cataylst?
13:03 <@ drobbins> Ramereth: we first need to figure out how to do manual cross-stage building
13:03 <@ drobbins> Ramereth: then it can be automated easily enough (given that we've figured it out)
13:03 <+   karltk> klieber, seemant: Yeah, they get fairly far. However, do all herds have a mail-alias and a home page?
13:04 <@    tseng> currently about 50% of the tree contains metadata, and i am actively working to get destkop releated packages under a herd
13:04 <  Ramereth> drobbins: k, just curious, i have a few boxen I could test that out on when i have a chance
13:04 <@  seemant> karltk: mail alias yes, home page no
13:04 <@   Azarah> drobbins: im guessing multi-slot-per-version will really only be portage-ng ?
13:04 <@ drobbins> Azarah: I added a hack to portage for the outstanding modules unmerge issue
13:04 <@ drobbins> Azarah: so that problem should be addressed
13:04 <+   karltk> klieber, seemant: but what I was more referring to are the "out-of-ebuild" projects, such as a catalyst, upcoming infrastructure changes. projects that reside elsewhere than as a particular ebuild. 
13:04 <@    tseng> karltk: wrt hompage, that is provided by the project or subproject that oversees the herd
13:04 <@  seemant> karltk: the standing request is that anyone creating a new entry in herds.xml needs to email cy, avenj, me about it so we can create mail alias
13:04 <@ drobbins> Azarah: we will figure out whether we can do that when we start formalizing the portage roadmap
13:05 <@  seemant> karltk: those have homepages
13:05 <@ drobbins> Azarah: which we have a due date for:
13:05 <@ drobbins> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/portage/
13:05 <@   Azarah> Ramereth: the problem with cross compiling, is not to do it, but to do it with portage support without cluttering the tree like the sys-devel/*gcc* we have now - they could/should have been one, maybe two ebuilds
13:05 <@  seemant> karltk: though they may not have mail aliases, which I'll look into and create
13:05 <+   karltk> klieber, seemant: as an example, trying to pick up the cross-compilation stuff after zach resulted in a lot of googling and dead links. it'd be nice to have better traceability for "cross-cutting" projects that affect more than one ebuild
13:05 <@   Azarah> drobbins: its needed for cross-compiling
13:05 <@   Azarah> drobbins: im not really interested in modules (ok, funky feature and all)
13:06 <@ drobbins> Ramereth: and if you have any problems with cross stuff that is related to portage, all you need to do is document the specific issue and then get it to me and carpaski (make sure you get it to me too)
13:06 <@ drobbins> Ramereth: we likely have some way we can solve your problem
13:06 <@  klieber> karltk: that's a valid point, but I don't think it's any more or less important than solid QA efforts.  meaning we shouldn't put one off to focus on the other
13:06 <@   Azarah> drobbins: look at the gcc ebuild
13:06 <@ drobbins> Azarah: ok
13:06 <+   karltk> seemant: that being said, I think it's a marked improvement wrt traceability with the metadata.xml (and thus the herds)
13:06 <  Ramereth> drobbins: well, i currently haven't had much time to mess with that, but once I get a chance i will try and persue it
13:06 <@ drobbins> Azarah: we need to know that, and now that we do we can look at getting it in to portage
13:06 <@   Azarah> drobbins: the different arch's will be supported if you change CCHOST (and Zack had it going some ways before he left),
13:07 <@   Azarah> drobbins: but we need taht for binutils, glibc, etc
13:07 <  Ramereth> drobbins: it would be nice to get a build for some slower non-x86 boxen on my faster x86 machines
13:07 <+   karltk> klieber: nonono. it's just that from my standpoint, herds+metadata has made it *a lot* easier to bug people on the ebuild-level.
13:07 <@   Azarah> drobbins: as all those need a native version for the arch you cross compiling for
13:07 <@   Azarah> drobbins: and adding a kazillion glibc-<arch> packages ...
13:07 <@   Azarah> for example
13:08 <@ drobbins> Azarah: ok. that is very do-able. I'll talk to carpaski about doing that and also getting rid of the dreaded counter (since it seems to be causing too many probs)
13:08 <+   karltk> klieber: so that's no longer an issue, apart from a few minitor details, such as perhaps each herd having its own homepage, and quite possibly add some feature to allow users to submit a bug against a particular build directly.
13:08 <@ drobbins> and I'll get some input from pvdabeel
13:08 <@   Azarah> setting the ARCH in SLOT a very flexiable solution, IMHO
13:08 <@ drobbins> yep
13:08 <@   Azarah> drobbins: wasnt that for gentoo-stable ? (counter)
13:09 <@ drobbins> Azarah: for emerge -C
13:09 <@ drobbins> Azarah: so the last-merged doesn't get unmerged
13:09 <+   karltk> Azarah: actually, when cross-compiling to a different arch, portage should start a new tree, imho.
13:09 <@ drobbins> Azarah: emerge -c
13:10 <@ drobbins> Azarah: anyway, if we have a list of stuff that's needed, we'll get it done
13:10 <@   Azarah> karltk: depends - you usually do not need the full thing for general cross compiling - you just want to get a bootstrap going, right ?
13:10 <@ drobbins> Azarah: we just needed that list. zwelch never gave me a list, he just complained and then started his secret fork plan
13:10 <@   Azarah> karltk: for catalist that is a different story
13:10 <@    tseng> alright guys, unfortunately i have to go
13:10  * SwifT too
13:10 <+   karltk> Azarah: well, I agree that you sometimes just want to create one tbz2 for a different arch and that's that.
13:10 <@   Azarah> drobbins: the multi-SLOT-per-version is the first step
13:11 -!- SwifT [~Sven@D5E06EB6.kabel.telenet.be] has left #gentoo-meetings []
13:11 <@    tseng> id like to close the meeting here, perhaps we can have a cross-compiling topic in the near future
13:11 <@   Azarah> drobbins: after that it will be nifty stuff like maybe portage auto setting CFLAGS from say CFLAGS_CHOST, etc
13:11 <@    tseng> thanks alot to everyone who presented, it was very informative ;)
13:11 <+   karltk> Azarah: but in general, it's the case that you either want to generate an entire stage for a different arch, or worse yet, use a fast x86 box to generate into an nfs server that is run by slow risc-boxes.
13:12 <@   Azarah> karltk: right, but that is in the league of catalist, and you prob do not need all of that merged local
13:12 <@   Azarah> karltk: or am I missing something ?
13:12 <+   karltk> Azarah: not really, but I don't see how it not being local solves anything.
13:13 <+   karltk> Azarah: do we have any system for the case where it is "non-local"?
13:13 <@   Azarah> karltk: no :)
13:13 <+   karltk> Azarah: lol
13:13 <@   Azarah> karltk: much of the cross compiling is a black box currently
13:13 <@   Azarah> karltk: the problem is mainting multiple ebuilds, and getting them tested
13:14 <+   karltk> Azarah: yeah, and it's been for a long time. it's a really, really tricky problem, and working on it requires fast hardware. currently, I'm relegated to a laptop with a 5400rpm disk, so it's out of the question to mess with it.
13:14 <@   Azarah> karltk: if we have the ability to set CCHOST (or whatever), and just remerge glibc, that will already get us started to the next stage
13:14 <@   Azarah> karltk: I have the box
13:14 <+   karltk> Azarah: in order to tackle cross-compilation, at least we need a skeleton tinderbox that can flag the non-build issues for us automatically.
13:14 <@   Azarah> karltk: I need something to cross compile to
13:14 <@   Azarah> karltk: and more time :/
13:15 <+   karltk> Azarah: I have a few arches we can cross-compile to that I can test on, but I don't have the box:)
13:15 <@   Azarah> karltk: right, so how far are you with your tinderbox ? :)
13:15 <+   karltk> Azarah: my box is down still:/
13:15 <  Ramereth> i have 3 sun boxen, 1 alpha, and a couple of ppc boxen to play with
13:15 <@   Azarah> karltk: how so ?
13:15 -!- port001 [~port001@cpc2-nott2-4-0-cust81.nott.cable.ntl.com] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:15 <+   karltk> Azarah: it's been frozen for a while. I guess it's about a weekend to get it back into working order. 
13:15 <@   Azarah> i got a sun4c .. does that count ? 
13:15 <@   Azarah> cant even boot a livecd :(
13:15 <@   Azarah> not enough memory
13:16 <+   karltk> Ramereth: do you have gentoo on these? any chance we can get login, so that we can start testing our tbz2s?
13:16 <+   karltk> Azarah: hehe.. 
13:16 <@   Azarah> karltk: if it was not too expensive hw, and you could get it there cheaply, that i could help with
13:16 <  Ramereth> karltk: no, i currently haven't had time to get gentoo on any of them
13:16 <  Ramereth> i could try and squeeze that in sometime
13:17 <  Ramereth> i've got 2 U1's and a U5
13:17 <+   karltk> Azarah: I guess it's simplest if I just put them online. 
13:17 <+   karltk> Azarah: we'll deal with X later:)
13:18 <   port001> I am early aren't I?
13:18 <@   Azarah> karltk: so X is the problem ? =p
13:18 <@   Azarah> port001: bit late actually
13:18 <+   karltk> Azarah: one of many problems:)
13:19 <   port001> I thought it was supposed to start at 1800
13:19 <   port001> bleh, ignore me
13:19 <+   karltk> port001: depends on which 1800 you are referring to:)
13:19 -!- bazik [~bazik@smtp.gentoo.org] has joined #gentoo-meetings
13:20 <   port001> I just noticed it was 7:15
13:20 <   port001> I could have sworn it was 5pm a few mins ago
13:20 <+   karltk> port001: are you driving very fast?
13:20 <@ carpaski> It's 5pm is about 3h40
13:21 <   port001> karltk: no :)
13:30 -!- pvdabeel [~pvdabeel@C382892E.kabel.telenet.be] has quit [Remote closed the connection]
13:30 -!- scandium [scandium@p50808DEB.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Leaving"]
13:31 -!- Ramereth [~lance@clarity.albertsonfarms.com] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Leaving"]
13:33 -!- avenj [avenj@66.222.104.21] has left #gentoo-meetings []
13:33 -!- klieber [~klieber@emu.gentoo.oregonstate.edu] has left #gentoo-meetings []
13:34 -!- port001 [~port001@cpc2-nott2-4-0-cust81.nott.cable.ntl.com] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Leaving"]
13:35 <@   Azarah> arg
13:35 < sj8trunks> you panged
13:35 <@   Azarah> forgot /p != /part
13:35 -!- spyderous [~spyderous@sfa234252.richmond.edu] has left #gentoo-meetings ["Client exiting"]
13:36 < sj8trunks> how did that end up pinging me
13:36 < sj8trunks> werd
13:36 <@   Azarah>  /p = /ping all ?
13:36 < sj8trunks> oh hah
13:39 -!- kloeri [~user1@0x50a11a4e.boanxx8.adsl-dhcp.tele.dk] has left #gentoo-meetings []
13:45 -!- lanius [heino@p508E3B0F.dip.t-dialin.net] has joined #gentoo-meetings
