<?xml version='1.0' encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE guide SYSTEM "/dtd/guide.dtd">
<guide link="/proj/en/devrel/manager-meetings/summaries/2003/20031215.xml">
<title>Gentoo Managers' Meeting Summary</title>
<subtitle>23 Feb. 2004</subtitle>
<author title="Author">Grant Goodyear</author>

<abstract>This meeting began at 1930 UTC, and the guest chair was Grant
	Goodyear. The scheduled agenda included reorganizing the Gentoo 
	security project, discussion of GLEP 20, and the 
	usual open-floor developer discussion.
</abstract>
<version>0.1</version>
<date>16 Mar. 2004</date>


<chapter>
<title>Security reorganization</title>
<section>
<body>
<p>
	Some time ago the managers discussed breaking out the security
	project into its own TLP and having it managed by klieber and method.
	Although there was unanimous agreement about the need to establish a
	formal, responsive security team, there was some discord about whether
	or not security warranted being a top-level project.  After a relatively
	brief discussion nobody objected sufficiently strenuously to creating
	a new TLP dedicated to security, so its creation seems quite likely.
	See the security project
	<uri link="http://www.gentoo.org/security/en/index.xml">page</uri>
	for more information.
</p>
</body></section>
</chapter>
<chapter>
<title>GLEP 20 Discussion</title>
<section>
<body>
<p>
	<uri link="http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0020.html">
		GLEP 20
	</uri> Proposes a USE flag to enable <e>optional</e> 
	support for web-applications
	(webapps) to use the <path>/srv</path> directory that has been 
	defined in 
	<uri link="http://bugs.freestandards.org/cgi-bin/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=16">
		FHS 2.3
	</uri>.  There was a fair amount of grumbling about the new root-level
	directory in general, but since the GLEP was proposing optional support
	the objections to the GLEP were fairly minor.  Azarah suggested that
	instead of a USE flag it might make more sense to have 
	<path>/srv</path> support enabled by an <path>rc.conf</path> variable.
	He also mentioned that optional <path>/srv</path> support is likely
	to break binary .tbz2 support until Portage supports optional 
	installation locations and linkages.
</p>
</body></section>
</chapter>
<chapter>
<title>Open Floor</title>
<section>
<body>
<p>
	There were few burning issues to be discussed, although the ppc64
	folks would like to have a ppc64 category on bugzilla.
	The
	meeting adjourned at 2000 UTC.  See the raw 
	<uri link="/proj/en/devrel/manager-meetings/logs/2004/20040308.txt">
		log</uri> for additional details.
</p>
</body></section>
</chapter>
</guide>
