>1. Official confirmation that the council is inline with
>   the already-defined roles of devrel and QA and its commitment
>   to make already-approved GLEPs (including GLEP 31) respected
>   (Clarification of position asked by many people including
>   Ciaran McCreesh, Patrick Lauer and Lance Albertson)

Confirmed with the caveat that the council is not taking on
disciplinary responsibilities.  The QA team should take complaints
regarding unresolved technical violations to devrel to pursue
displinary action.

Regarding GLEP 31, the council is in favor of enforcement ASAP,
provided nano is confirmed to be capable of compliance.  That will set
the bar to require UTF-8 capable editors for portage work.

(note: agenda reordered per request)

>3. glep40: Standardizing "arch" keywording across all archs
>   Vote asked by Grant Goodyear

Approved.

>2. glep33: Eclass Restructure/Redesign
>   Vote asked by Brian Harring

Approved.
