19:00 <@g2boojum> Thank you all for being here.  Today's agenda includes (1) Google's Summer of Code, (2) an update on portage gpg signing, and (3) the usual developer floor.  We'll start w/ the Summer of Code.  gerrynjrserver?
19:00 -!- spb [n=spb@gentoo/developer/spb] has joined #gentoo-council
19:00 -!- g2boojum changed the topic of #gentoo-council to: meeting at 1900UTC (proxies swift->fox2mike vapier->josejx az->uberlord||halcy0n agriffis->g2boojum) | Topic: Google SOC
19:00 < gerrynjrserver> well, I'd like to propose that gentoo sign up to join google's summer of code
19:01 < gerrynjrserver> if done, it would fall under the fairly new userrel subproject
19:01 < gerrynjrserver> seems like it will be an excellent pr opportunity and would possibly allow us to get some fresh, energetic developers in
19:02 < gerrynjrserver> I would definitely be willing to take on a lead position for this project
19:02 -!- agriffis [n=agriffis@gentoo/developer/agriffis] has joined #gentoo-council
19:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+o agriffis] by ChanServ
19:02 <@agriffis> hey g2boojum, I made it back in time (I think)
19:02 <@Koon> g2boojum: impostor !
19:02 <@agriffis> heh
19:02  * agriffis just walked in
19:02  * g2boojum continues to chair the meeting, but no longer votes.
19:03 < gerrynjrserver> this would entail overviewing proposed projects, maintianing a page of ideas developers have proposed, as well as keeping a list of possible mentors
19:03 <@agriffis> if you'd like, I can just duck back out :-)
19:03 < gerrynjrserver> would also ensure student summer of coders get thier review mid way
19:03 < gerrynjrserver> process shoould go this way
19:03 < gerrynjrserver> -students should be familiar with gentoo
19:03 <@Koon> gerrynjrserver: is there a point in catacting Google before we get a final list of projects ?
19:03 <@Koon> contacting
19:04 < gerrynjrserver> yes
19:04 < gerrynjrserver> contact has actually already been made
19:04 <@g2boojum> gerrynjrserver: You're willing to be Gentoo's "organization administrator", then? (http://code.google.com/soc/mentorfaq.html#2)
19:04 < gerrynjrserver> g2boojum: indeed
19:04 <@g2boojum> agriffis: No, please do stay!
19:04 < gerrynjrserver> contact has been mde by the userrel project, as it was thought that if we wait, it would be too late
19:04 < gerrynjrserver> and considering gentoo is shooting down most applications now, it was probably a wise decision
19:05 < nattfodd> s/gentoo/google/
19:05 < gerrynjrserver> (only 4 seats now remain, and we still do not yet know if we have been accepted)
19:05 < gerrynjrserver> but, we have not yet received a "denial" notice as most other new signups have received
19:05 < gerrynjrserver> nattfodd: thanks 8-)
19:05 <@Koon> gerrynjrserver: OK. When should the final list of projects be sent ? May 1st ?
19:06 < gerrynjrserver> yes
19:06 < gerrynjrserver> the following week students will be allowed to submit thier applications as well as ideas
19:06 < nattfodd> we also need a firm list of mentors by then
19:06 < gerrynjrserver> nattfodd: yes
19:07 <@g2boojum> Okay, any other questions from council members?
19:08 <@Koon> gerrynjrserver: Like I said, I approve that project, but a look on the list of proposed projects would be nice, even if I trust you to remove the non-worthy ones
19:08 < gerrynjrserver> Koon: of course
19:08 < gerrynjrserver> i've jsut been notified that gentoo is still on the "maybe" list
19:08 < gerrynjrserver> with two seats available
19:09 < gerrynjrserver> so.. still nto shot down
19:09 < gerrynjrserver> *not
19:09 < gerrynjrserver> (thanks christel)
19:09 <@g2boojum> Otherwise I'm going to suggest a vote on giving this an official "go-ahead".
19:09 <@Koon> gerrynjrserver: They decide  based on the org and not the project if I understand correctly
19:09 < gerrynjrserver> Koon: yes
19:09 <@Koon> voting yes for the go-ahead
19:09 < gerrynjrserver> i'd also request that a mailinglist be setup for this purpsoe
19:10 < gerrynjrserver> if we are accepted 8-)
19:10 <@solar> that wont be a problem. just file an -infra bug
19:10 < gerrynjrserver> will do
19:11 <@g2boojum> Is anybody actually opposed?
19:11 <@agriffis> sounds okay to me
19:11 -!- Irssi: #gentoo-council: Total of 13 nicks [7 ops, 0 halfops, 0 voices, 6 normal]
19:11 <@JoseJX> I think it's a good idea to try to be involved.
19:11 <@Koon> and also a good trhing that someone stepped up to organize everything
19:12 <@g2boojum> fox2mike, seemant?
19:12 <@Koon> good ideas are common, good ideas with people to support them is better
19:12 < gerrynjrserver> Koon: thanks for the compliment 8-)
19:14 <@solar> just try todo it right and not get us rejected from future SoC events for failing to follow up properly this summer. try accept ideas that are realistic and benefit *linux* vs just say gentoo.
19:14 < gerrynjrserver> solar: I will try
19:14 <@seemant> I'm all for it,
19:14 <@seemant> but yes @ solar's caveats
19:15 <@g2boojum> Okay, that's a strong majority.  Moving on to the next item, gpg signing in portage.  Koon?
19:15 <@Koon> gerrynjrserver: ideally, a backup organizer would be good, in case Real Life [tm] sucks you away
19:15 < gerrynjrserver> Koon: i've got christel 8-)
19:16 < gerrynjrserver> as a co-lead
19:16 < nattfodd> and there's also bonsaikitten_ and me ready to help wherever needed
19:16 < gerrynjrserver> nattfodd: nod
19:16 <@Koon> We were supposed to do regular updates on progress on the portage tree signing functionality
19:16 <@Koon> There is not much progress to report on. It's a good idea but it lacks someone to push it
19:17 <@solar> status on it as far as I understand is still at a stalled process. The method of trust itself is not being solved
19:17 <@Koon> We @security still receive new bugs on that problem
19:17 <@Koon> solar: we are still waiting on key policy and web of trust
19:18 <@fox2mike> hey
19:18 <@g2boojum> Koon: I thought the council was drafting the key policy and web-of-trust.
19:18 <@fox2mike> sorry, I was fiddling with NetworkManager :|
19:18 <@Koon> I would go back to the simple-but-better-than-nothing one, since robbat2 didn't follow up on his proposal
19:18 <@fox2mike> g2boojum: here now, representing Swift
19:18 <@g2boojum> fox2mike: Thanks, good to have you.
19:19 <@Koon> The simple-but-better-than-nothing was discussed in a previous managers meeting from before the council time
19:20 <@fox2mike> g2boojum: and I'm for the SoC thingy (if I'm allowed to express opinion on Swift's behalf) :)
19:20 <@Koon> master key distributed with media and downloadable from the web used to authenticate the dev keyring
19:20 <@g2boojum> fox2mike: Absolutely.  Thanks.
19:20 <@Koon> no need to enter complicated mutual signing if we can't even do that one
19:21 <@Koon> and dev keyring maintained by devrel
19:22 <@g2boojum> Anybody else have anything to add on signing?
19:22 <@Koon> I just can't see any success here without someone stepping up to lead that part
19:22 <@Koon> unfortunately I already have trouble in doing my current job so I won't do it
19:23 <@g2boojum> Koon: Someone on the council, or just someone in general?
19:23 <@seemant> wouldn't it be ideal for a security team member to take the lead on it?
19:23 <@Koon> I'd say someone in general, with bones to take the usual -dev discussions there are when we discuss signing
19:24 <@Koon> seemant: there isn't much availability in the sec team, same as me
19:24 < nattfodd> what would it imply?
19:24 <@Koon> Even if recitment is in progress with a few promising peeps
19:24 <@Koon> recruitment
19:25 <@seemant> Koon: and is there remaining development needed on the portage side of things?
19:25 <@seemant> or at this point is it just choosing a system and implementing a policy?
19:25 <@Koon> nattfodd: do proper GLEPs and take the heat from gentoo-dev (saying do your own GLEP and have the council choose rather than trying to please everyone)
19:25 <@seemant> oh
19:25 <@solar> yes. eclasses are not signed. repoman still allows unsigned commits. and the entire portage tree is not signed
19:26 <@solar> now if we are using a single key. then it sounds like devs should not have to worry about signing at all. and it's all done from the cvs commit hooks
19:26 <@g2boojum> seemant: The portage folks are waiting on a policy to finish implementation.  There's a framework in place, though.
19:27 <@Koon> seemant: On that subject there are as much possibilities and proposals as there are people subscribed on -dev. And proposals are usually non-compatible. But telling people to formalize it in GLEP usually results in 0 GLEPs
19:27 <@JoseJX> How many devs are signing now?
19:27 < nattfodd> Koon: I might be interested in doing that
19:27 < nattfodd> just need to go through those -dev discussions
19:27 <@solar> 60% of the tree is signed afaik
19:28 <@Koon> solar: we would still use dev keys, the master key would just authenticate the dev keyring, which would be downloaded with portage
19:28 <@Koon> that was the plan back then, and I still have to see a better and simpler proposal
19:29 <@Koon> emerge --sync would verify integrity of the dev keyring as part of the sync process
19:29 <@Koon> using a trusted master key seeded by install media / web download
19:29 <@Koon> you can even update the master key that way
19:30 <@Koon> nattfodd: you should also look back at those old managers meetings logs
19:30 <@Koon> where the thing was sorted out after the last -dev flamefest on the subject
19:31 < nattfodd> Koon: will do
19:31 <@Koon> back then the problem was "how do we maintain the keyring" and LDAP fud
19:31 <@seemant> nattfodd: do we assume you're taking this on?
19:31 <@g2boojum> Okay, then that discussion can move to the mailing list.  Open floor for devs (not that it wasn't already).
19:32 <@Koon> seemant: he will at least consider the option of taking this on :)
19:32 -!- g2boojum changed the topic of #gentoo-council to: meeting at 1900UTC (proxies swift->fox2mike vapier->josejx az->uberlord||halcy0n agriffis->g2boojum) | Topic: Signing drifing into an open floor.
19:32 < nattfodd> seemant: not yet, I have no background on this topic so need to check first that I *can* do it
19:32 < nattfodd> but I'll try to
19:34 <@Koon> nattfodd: if you need some details feel free to send an email my way
19:34 <@Koon> No more questions ?
19:35 < nattfodd> Koon: ok, I'll certainly do that
19:35 <@solar> I have no open questions and I wish you guys good luck getting gentoo-SoC off the ground.
19:36 <@g2boojum> Any other topics?
19:36 < christel> sorry, i was er, doing soc stuff for one of my other projects, yes, i believe its a good idea to go for it (lots of free pr and all that) and i'm afraid that due to it being 4 places left at time of applying and things occsionally taking a while around here i er, took a seemant advice and went a backway :)
19:36 <@fox2mike> any update on anoncvs/svn? Last I heard it was ready?
19:36 <@Koon> nattfodd: it's mostly a job of coordinating a lot of people : devrel for the keyring and key policy (expiration, length...), portage guys to improve integration etc
19:36 <@Koon> also the releng team to include master key in...
19:36 <@g2boojum> fox2mike: ask infra?
19:37 <@Koon> sounds a little like "Mission: Impossible" so good luck, Jim
19:37 < christel> as for SoC status, they are hoping to let us know if accepted or declined by monday :)
19:37 <@fox2mike> g2boojum: been doing that for months now
19:38 < tove> i am still curious if there will be a trustees election this year. maybe one of the trustees here knows?
19:38 <@Koon> There will be a council election for sure... we were talking of using the same timeframe as last year, voting over July-August
19:38  * solar votes for everybody that's already a trustee to remain one
19:38 <@g2boojum> tove: Wrong forum, but yes, there will.  I'll send out an e-mail to -nfp this weekend.
19:39 < tove> g2boojum: why should this be the wrong forum?
19:39 <@Koon> because we don't touch trstee stuff, it's slimy
19:39 <@g2boojum> tove: Because the Gentoo Council and the Gentoo Foundation are completely separate entities.
19:40 <@seemant> tove: trustees and council have different areas of responsibility -- as such this meeting is a council (development) meeting, rather than a foundation one
19:40  * Koon disappears
19:41 <@g2boojum> Anything else?
19:41 <@g2boojum> Going...
19:41 -!- tove [n=tove@p54A61CF9.dip0.t-ipconnect.de] has quit ["leaving"]
19:41 <@g2boojum> Going...
19:41 <@seemant> Gone
19:41 <@solar> thanks g2boojum and others
19:41 <@g2boojum> Meeting adjourned.  Thanks for coming.
--- Log closed Thu Apr 20 19:42:09 2006
