On behalf of the Council: following a summary of topics discussed during 
the last Council meeting. (2006/10/19)

1) As requested by Robbin H. Johnson, the Council discussed the member's
   current involvement with Gentoo projects:

   Chris Gianelloni:  games, gwn, genkernel, catalyst, new profile
                      structure, planning for 2007.0
   Robbin H. Johnson: tree-signing, infra (Bugzilla, anon(cvs|svn))
   Danny van Dyk:     AMD64 releng (testing, soon new profiles)
   Kingtaco:          infra(Bugzilla, anon(cvs|svn), utf8 on pecker)
   Mike Frysinger:    toolchain, base-system
   Diego Petteno:     Gentoo/FreeBSD
   Bryan Ostergaard:  Devrel (Developer stats, fact-finding)
   
2) Chris Gianelloni had issued a small agenda for this meeting
 
 Inter-project communication: Consensus that communication has improved
   as of late. This covers especially spread information about project
   work from Portage/Devrel/Infra to the developers.

   Additionally, the council wants to put meeting summaries on
   Planet Gentoo and the Gentoo Forums starting with this summary.

 Design phase for new projects: New projects need to post an RFC
   containing information about their goals, the plan on how to
   implement their goals and the necessary resources to -dev prior to
   creating the project.

   This proposal was accepted with 6 members voting yes and one member
   abstained from voting

 Devrel etiquette guide: Needs still work before Council can discuss.
   Rescheduled for next meeting. Bryan Ostergaard will be working on it.

 QA Policies: Nothing new and QA lead was not available during the
   meeting. Discussion has been rescheduled for the next meeting.
