[19:05] *** You set the channel mode to 'moderated'.
[19:05] <Flameeyes> i suppose the timing decision can wait till vapier comes (if he's just late)
[19:05] <Kugelfang> there we got
[19:05] <Kugelfang> -t
[19:06] <Flameeyes> especially as he seems to need to change that :)
[19:06] <wolf31o2|mobile> yeah, we can hold that one off until near the end
[19:06] <-- GurliOnTheRoad has left this server (Read error: 60 (Operation timed out)).
[19:06] <kingtaco|laptop> or just email it
[19:06] <Kugelfang> heh
[19:06] <kingtaco|laptop> should be a no brainer
[19:06] <kingtaco|laptop> anywho
[19:06] <wolf31o2|mobile> true... we don't need that to be done during the official meeting, really
[19:07] <Flameeyes> so we can either start with antarus|work's topic or with wolf31o2|mobile's, which one first?
[19:07] <Kugelfang> wolf
[19:07] --> ChrisWhite|Work has joined this channel (n=chris@gentoo/developer/ChrisWhite).
[19:07] <Flameeyes> ack wolf for me too
[19:07] <kingtaco|laptop> do it
[19:07] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: you have the floor
[19:08] <wolf31o2|mobile> err... well, there's probably two different questions... the first is; can the council make a decision without it being put on an agenda and have to wait for the monthly meeting?
[19:09] <kingtaco|laptop> that's why I suggested a 2nd meeting if there was something to discuss
[19:09] <Kugelfang> i say yes, while this decision should be only intermediate until a proper meeting takes place
[19:09] <kloeri> I'd say yes as long as we use some common sense, eg. don't rush GLEPs through without prior discussion
[19:09] <Flameeyes> i'd say yes, for urgent matters or non-controversial decisions
[19:10] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok... so what is considered an urgent matter?
[19:10] <Kugelfang> that's up to us :-)
[19:11] <Flameeyes> decisions that has to be discussed upon asap or they might "fly away"... probably depends on what the issue is
[19:11] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh... I'd be fine with that
[19:11] <kloeri> ditto
[19:12] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok... so we allow "impromptu" meetings, at our own request, to discuss possible time-sensitive issues?
[19:12] <Flameeyes> kingtaco|laptop, robbat2?
[19:12] <kingtaco|laptop> sure
[19:12] <Kugelfang> vote with yes or no
[19:12] <Kugelfang> yes
[19:12] <kloeri> yes
[19:12] <Flameeyes> yes
[19:12] <kingtaco|laptop> yes
[19:12] <robbat2> yes, common sense to delay things that have unanswered issues still, but be more flexible in allowing
[19:12] <wolf31o2|mobile> yes
[19:12] <Kugelfang> 6 of 7, vapier is late, this one passed
[19:12] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok... and how many should we require present to have one of these meetings?
[19:13] <Kugelfang> 5
[19:13] <wolf31o2|mobile> 4+? 5?
[19:13] <Flameeyes> Kugelfang, which one passed? both or just the first?
[19:13] <Kugelfang> more than the half and an odd number
[19:13] <Flameeyes> 5
[19:13] <kingtaco|laptop> 5+
[19:13] <robbat2> 5+
[19:13] <wolf31o2|mobile> agreed
[19:13] <Kugelfang> Flameeyes: the first one
[19:13] <-- GurliGebis has left this server (No route to host).
[19:13] <Flameeyes> what about the slacker rule for such meetings?
[19:13] <kloeri> 5+ sounds good
[19:13] <Kugelfang> i think we have consense of 5 council members
[19:13] <Flameeyes> should it still rule?
[19:13] <Kugelfang> Flameeyes: applies only to regular meetings
[19:13] <kingtaco|laptop> I don't think so
[19:14] <Flameeyes> Kugelfang, agreed
[19:14] <kloeri> no, regular meetings only imo
[19:14] <wolf31o2|mobile> I don't think the slacker rule shoudl count, since it is impromptu, and we don't allow the meeting if we have below the proper threshol
[19:14] <wolf31o2|mobile> +d
[19:14] <Flameeyes> so even the second one passed
[19:14] <Kugelfang> robbat2?
[19:14] <kingtaco|laptop> how much notice for one of these meetings?
[19:14] <kingtaco|laptop> 7days?
[19:14] <kingtaco|laptop> list 2 possible times?
[19:15] <robbat2> no slacker rule, because we do need time to get ourselves
[19:15] <wolf31o2|mobile> I would think "impromptu" means it should be possible on the spur of the moment
[19:15] <Kugelfang> let's say more than 5 days
[19:15] <Kugelfang> means: we can say on monday "We'll discuss it" and act on firday
[19:15] <Flameeyes> i'd say the time needed, after all if it's "on the fly", we might need it now
[19:15] <Kugelfang> friday... i think that's a good rule of thumb...
[19:15] <Kugelfang> Flameeyes: you mean: no limit at all?
[19:15] <robbat2> 3 days, or as long as every council member (all 7 of us) agree we need to meet on it immediately
[19:16] <kingtaco|laptop> that works
[19:16] <wolf31o2|mobile> sure
[19:16] <Flameeyes> i like robbat2's solution
[19:16] <Kugelfang> i like robbat2's proposal
[19:16] <Kugelfang> heh
[19:16] <robbat2> 3 days gives us space for the 5+ people, but if it's really urgent, people will find a way to get us
[19:16] --> dostrow has joined this channel (n=dostrow@gentoo/developer/dostrow).
[19:17] <wolf31o2|mobile> so... allow meetings outside of the schedule on time sensitive issues, the meeting needs more than 5 members, and it should be done with no less than 3 days notice, unless the council unanimously decides to hold it sooner?
[19:17] <Kugelfang> yes
[19:17] <robbat2> yes
[19:17] <wolf31o2|mobile> (that should cover everything)
[19:17] <Flameeyes> at least 5 members
[19:17] <wolf31o2|mobile> yes
[19:17] <Flameeyes> (>= rather than >)
[19:17] <wolf31o2|mobile> it says that
[19:18] <Flameeyes> and yes on that anyway
[19:18] <wolf31o2|mobile> err... ok
[19:18] <robbat2> good point Flameeyes
[19:18] <wolf31o2|mobile> 5+
[19:18] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh
[19:18] <Kugelfang> yes
[19:18] <kingtaco|laptop> yes
[19:18] <Flameeyes> kloeri, wolf31o2|mobile?
[19:19] <wolf31o2|mobile> <wolf31o2|mobile> yes
[19:19] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile said yes already
[19:19] <Flameeyes> okay, so kloeri?
[19:19] <Kugelfang> kloeri honey, we're waiting
[19:19] <kloeri> sounds good
[19:19] <Kugelfang> excellent
[19:20] <Kugelfang> i think this point is done then, isn't it?
[19:20] <Flameeyes> i'd say so
[19:20] <robbat2> yup
[19:20] *** You give antarus|work the permission to talk.
[19:20] <Kugelfang> i still wonder where vapier is
[19:20] <Flameeyes> antarus|work, are you here?
[19:20] <robbat2> unless wolf31o2 wanted to say more about the possible 4th thursday
[19:20] <kingtaco|laptop> we'll do this instead
[19:21] <kingtaco|laptop> works better
[19:21] <wolf31o2|mobile> yeah... doesn't restrict us to a time
[19:21] <robbat2> ok
[19:21] <wolf31o2|mobile> so we can be like "hey, friday at 5:30 works for me"
[19:22] <Flameeyes> strange tho that mike is this late
[19:22] <Flameeyes> kingtaco|laptop, not you :P
[19:22] <Kugelfang> does anybody have his cell phone number?
[19:22] <Kugelfang> oh, that reminds me, shall we exchange contact information via the alias?
[19:23] <robbat2> yes
[19:23] <Flameeyes> i suppose that's good
[19:23] <Kugelfang> robbat2: yes to what?
[19:23] <robbat2> yes to contact info
[19:23] <Kugelfang> good, let's do it right after the meetings :-)
[19:23] <Kugelfang> -s
[19:23] <Kugelfang> shall we proceed with antarus then?
[19:23] <wolf31o2|mobile> did Mike get a new cell phone? last I knew (LWE) his was somewhere in a gutter in Shanghai
[19:24] <wolf31o2|mobile> let's
[19:24] <Flameeyes> wolf31o2|mobile, ouch, that's bad
[19:24] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: you have have the floor
[19:25] * kloeri pokes antarus|work 
[19:25] <antarus|work> er
[19:25] <antarus|work> sorry
[19:25] * antarus|work is back!
[19:26] <Kugelfang> sure, just give us some beer and we'll forget about it :-P
[19:27] <Flameeyes> or just talk, that works too
[19:27] <antarus|work> Quiet you :p
[19:27] <antarus|work> Moreso I think the current QA policy doesn't work completely
[19:28] <kingtaco|laptop> explain
[19:28] <antarus|work> The current policy seems rather vague in areas; to both users and developers
[19:29] <Kugelfang> which areas
[19:29] <antarus|work> things like having packages build properly; releng will tell you that it should build properly with default USE flags; Ciaran will tell you it should build properly with the ebuild choosing sane flag defaults
[19:30] <Kugelfang> well, both sounds sane to me, we gotta find a way in the middle here
[19:30] <antarus|work> At least for me; the QA team should not be the guys who fix stuff; the team is too small and the amount of work too large.
[19:30] <wolf31o2|mobile> well, I'd say that both should be true... ;]
[19:30] * antarus|work doesn't expect the council to come up with new policy ;)
[19:31] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: i think we should expand the QA team then
[19:31] <antarus|work> Kugelfang: How?
[19:31] <Flameeyes> i think one of the point should be that no qa should be enforced unless the policy is properly agreed upon
[19:31] * antarus|work would rather have QA policy that is followed; then qa that is ignored
[19:31] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: get people to search for QAcanfix keyword and fix it
[19:32] <antarus|work> Kugelfang: eh, and if that doesn't work?
[19:32] <kingtaco|laptop> why don't you revise/rewrite the policy to resolve these problems you see and then we can look at that?
[19:32] <wolf31o2|mobile> agreed... I think we need a policy to look at and agree to... we can still discuss, to help brainstorm some ideas, btu we can't really decide on a concept so much
[19:33] <wolf31o2|mobile> I mean, we'll all agree "we need good qa"
[19:33] <Flameeyes> agreed, we should have a policy to look at before decide on most of the matters there, or we're not making a point
[19:33] <antarus|work> wolf31o2|mobile: are you willing to sacrifice people for it?
[19:33] <kloeri> wolf31o2|mobile: right
[19:33] <Flameeyes> eh, what wolf31o2|mobile said basically
[19:33] <wolf31o2|mobile> antarus|work: sacrifice, meaning?
[19:34] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: you mean like: remove persistent offenders, or at least suspend them?
[19:34] <wolf31o2|mobile> if you mean have disciplinary action taken against repeated offenders, then absolutely... but that's not our job, perse
[19:34] <antarus|work> Kugelfang: yes
[19:34] <wolf31o2|mobile> but I would definitely back that action being taken
[19:34] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: write it up. i'm not against it per se
[19:34] <Flameeyes> agreed
[19:35] <antarus|work> wolf31o2|mobile: I think moreso the thought is 'I can break QA and essentially have no reprecussions"
[19:35] <kloeri> devrel would be happy to suspend or kick off repeat offenders based on proper complaints from qa
[19:35] <antarus|work> which is obviously a problem
[19:35] <wolf31o2|mobile> right
[19:35] <Flameeyes> antarus|work, i think the problem is we don't have an *official* policy
[19:35] <Kugelfang> Flameeyes: actually, we have, GLEP 39 iirc
[19:35] * antarus|work notes having a half-dead qa team for large amounts of time
[19:35] <kloeri> antarus|work: document the offences and complain to devrel after you warned the offender
[19:35] <antarus|work> Kugelfang: 48 you mean?
[19:35] <robbat2> i'm not sure that suspend/kick directly is the right solution - re-education first
[19:36] <Flameeyes> Kugelfang, no i mean, there are still obsure points
[19:36] <antarus|work> robbat2: I would agree; can't be too hasty ;)
[19:36] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: eh, yes
[19:36] <Flameeyes> devmanual wasn't updated in its entirety and there are still debatable points
[19:36] <Kugelfang> Flameeyes: devmanual was discusses on QA meeting, i attended there
[19:36] <kloeri> robbat2: qa would need to warn etc. before filing a devrel complaint or I'll bounce it back
[19:36] <Kugelfang> Flameeyes: the turnout was, unsatisfactory to say the least
[19:37] <Flameeyes> Kugelfang, can you summarise?
[19:37] <antarus|work> Flameeyes: I have the log..
[19:37] <Kugelfang> spb just asked for voice
[19:37] <Kugelfang> he can if you want
[19:37] <antarus|work> Flameeyes: it's not pretty :P
[19:37] <Flameeyes> antarus|work, that's why i asked a summary
[19:37] *** You give spb the permission to talk.
[19:37] *** kloeri gives spb the permission to talk.
[19:38] <Kugelfang> uh, i have op here...... forgot competely :-P
[19:38] <kloeri> Kugelfang: :)
[19:38] <spb> the summary, in short terms and based on what i remember, goes something like this
[19:38] <spb> first item devmanual. it's listed as a qa project yet qa has no access to it, we don't like this, but plasmaroo is resisting any change
[19:39] <spb> then there was the lack of any properly documented qa policy, which we would like to fix
[19:39] <Kugelfang> this has to be relevated: plasmaroo doesn'T want to give out SVN access to anybody.. he said he'd include patches as soon as he gets them
[19:39] <antarus|work> relevated?
[19:40] <Flameeyes> antarus|work, made notice of
[19:40] <Kugelfang> plasmaroo is resisting any change
[19:40] <Kugelfang> ^^^
[19:40] <antarus|work> Flameeyes: thanks ;)
[19:40] <spb> also the EAPI-0 spec / package manager standard / whatever you want to call it
[19:40] <wolf31o2|mobile> what is required to move the devmanual to gentoo infrastructure? and has there been a problem getting patches accepted, so far? (in other words, has the current process proven broken)
[19:41] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: the SVN repo is on halcy0n.org
[19:41] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: it could easily be moved
[19:41] <spb> wolf31o2|mobile: what's required is an svn repo and someone having access to whichever box hosts devmanual.g.o to pull updates from svn manually
[19:41] <Kugelfang> i think that can be automated
[19:41] <spb> at the moment the svn is external and only one person has the latter
[19:41] <wolf31o2|mobile> it would need to be...
[19:41] <wolf31o2|mobile> and what about my second question?
[19:42] <antarus|work> wolf31o2|mobile: No one has submitted actual patches; as far as I'm aware
[19:42] <Kugelfang> answer is no
[19:42] <Flameeyes> i think wolf's second question is the important one here
[19:42] <spb> there's a bug open with some needed changes; it had no response until he was asked in the qa meeting yesterday why that was, at which point he said he was waiting for patches
[19:42] <spb> which is fine as long as he says he's waiting for patches
[19:42] * antarus|work nods
[19:42] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok
[19:43] <antarus|work> communication was a bit slow there
[19:43] <wolf31o2|mobile> so now we all know
[19:43] <wolf31o2|mobile> =]
[19:43] <spb> we do
[19:43] <spb> what exactly it is that we know is left as an exercise for the reader
[19:43] <antarus|work> I guess my last question is; is there a better way to create policy besides doing it internally to QA
[19:43] <Kugelfang> i can understand that plasmaroo doesn't want every dev to have commit access, on the other hand i think that the Gentoo devmanual should be in Gentoo SVN
[19:43] <kloeri> there's another problem of backups that nobody have addressed afaik (which would point towards hosting it on gentoo svn)
[19:44] <spb> my assumption there is that qa drafts something and sends it to $other_party for review
[19:44] <Flameeyes> i think we shouldn't really try to force anything until it's proven broken, to use wolf's words
[19:44] <antarus|work> Flameeyes: I was thinking moreso; of making some kind of sub-project
[19:44] <robbat2> Kugelfang, on Gentoo SVN/CVS we do offer access restrictions if desired
[19:44] <antarus|work> where we invite people interested in forming poicy
[19:44] <wolf31o2|mobile> your second point... the qa policy... I think we all agree that we'd like to see one hammered down... what do you need for that to happen?
[19:44] <Kugelfang> robbat2: i know, i use them for eselect :-P
[19:44] <antarus|work> maybe thats just too gay
[19:44] <antarus|work> I dunno :p
[19:45] * antarus|work spices up the council logs
[19:45] <Flameeyes> antarus|work, you mean people not involved in the qa project itself?
[19:45] <antarus|work> Flameeyes: yes
[19:45] <Flameeyes> separating legislative from executive, basically
[19:45] <Kugelfang> antarus|work: well, as was already said: come up with a proposal and council can discuss
[19:46] <antarus|work> Flameeyes: Yeah, basically ;)
[19:46] <Flameeyes> agreed, we need something to look at to decide, we can only think of the concept this way
[19:46] <spb> wolf31o2|mobile: for QA policy i suspect just time and the right people
[19:46] <wolf31o2|mobile> actually... let's do this... for issue #1, the devmanual, there's not been anything shown to be necessarily broken, but points were brought up why moving it to gentoo infrastructure would be desirable... I say we defer on any decision regarding this until a plan has been put in place for migration, as well as any requirements from/for infra... as in, scripts to automate pulls from SVN and access restrictions that need to be p
[19:46] <wolf31o2|mobile> laced... agreed?
[19:47] <robbat2> yes
[19:47] <Flameeyes> yes
[19:47] * antarus|work was hoping to avoid the devmanual entirely in this meeting ;P
[19:47] <Kugelfang> yes
[19:47] <wolf31o2|mobile> yes
[19:47] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh
[19:47] <kloeri> yes
[19:47] <Kugelfang> kloeri: ?
[19:47] <Kugelfang> kingtaco|laptop: ?
[19:47] <Kugelfang> kloeri: sorry
[19:47] <Kugelfang> :-)
[19:49] <kingtaco|laptop> what are we voting on?
[19:49] <kingtaco|laptop> that qa needs to be defined?
[19:49] <Kugelfang> 19:46 <@wolf31o2|mobile> actually... let's do this... for issue #1, the devmanual, there's not been anything shown to be necessarily broken, but points were brought up why moving it to gentoo infrastructure would be desirable... I say we defer on any decision regarding this until a plan has been put in place for
[19:49] <Kugelfang> migration, as well as ny requirements from/for infra... as in, scripts to automate pull s from SVN and access restrictions that need to be p
[19:49] --> iluxa has joined this channel (n=anonymou@gentoo/developer/iluxa).
[19:49] <kingtaco|laptop> yes
[19:49] * antarus|work will talk to qa about creating a subproject for policy authoring then
[19:50] <antarus|work> a cross-project subproject ;P
[19:50] * spb doesn't see the point
[19:50] * antarus|work nods
[19:50] <wolf31o2|mobile> re: qa policy... from the discussion here, we'd really like something that we can look at and say that we'd stand behind it 100%... I would say that the best thing would be to try to come up with a somewhat representative (and informal) group to assist in writing/modifying existing policy...
[19:50] <Flameeyes> wolf31o2|mobile's decision is then agreed upon, 
[19:50] <Kugelfang> spb, antarus|work: please get in contact with infra to work out details of a possible migration
[19:50] <antarus|work> Kugelfang: I'll do that
[19:50] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: that one needs no vote :-P
[19:51] <wolf31o2|mobile> qa heads it up... and again, it doesn't have to be formal... since i'm not sure I see the point... but, for example, you'd probably want to grab a bug-wrangler or two... and some toolchain people, etc
[19:51] <Flameeyes> and arches
[19:51] * antarus|work nods
[19:51] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: don't forget releng!
[19:51] --> nephros has joined this channel (n=nephros@gentoo/userrep/nephros).
[19:51] <wolf31o2|mobile> Kugelfang: right... heh... I'm just trying to rephrase some stuff that's spread over lots of lines into something coherent
[19:51] <antarus|work> wolf31o2|mobile: you've been doing a great job too ;)
[19:52] <wolf31o2|mobile> spb: you had something to say about the EAPI thing? it kinda got lost
[19:52] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: that was part of the QA meeting summary
[19:52] <spb> i think the conclusion there was that it's probably best as it is for the moment, since the bulk of the work has been/is being done by a non-current-developer
[19:53] <spb> once it's got some substance to it i'm thinking in terms of forming it into a glep that you guys can vote on
[19:53] <kingtaco|laptop> wfm
[19:53] <wolf31o2|mobile> WFM
[19:53] <wolf31o2|mobile> =]
[19:53] <Kugelfang> i can say it looks promising already
[19:53] <robbat2> works
[19:53] <spb> if nothing else, the introduction of it would be a fairly major change to the way we do things
[19:53] <Flameeyes> wfm2
[19:53] * kloeri agrees
[19:54] * antarus|work shall go poof now
[19:54] <spb> there's a slight question of who would maintain it once that happens, but we can deal with that later
[19:54] <antarus|work> unless you need more from me?
[19:54] <Kugelfang> if you guys want to look at it: http://svn.pioto.org/viewvc/paludis/scratch/eapispec/EAPI-0.txt?view=markup
[19:54] <wolf31o2|mobile> antarus|work: I think we're good
[19:54] <antarus|work> wolf31o2|mobile: cool, thanks for the input.
[19:55] <wolf31o2|mobile> spb: hopefully, it would be a joint operation between QA and the portage team (or $package_managers, if you prefer)
[19:56] <spb> that's certainly one of the options, yeah
[19:56] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok... so was there anything else?
[19:56] <Kugelfang> yeah, the slacker mark for vapier
[19:56] <Kugelfang> :-/
[19:56] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh
[19:57] <spb> nothing i can think of
[19:57] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok
[19:57] <wolf31o2|mobile> anything else on the agenda?
[19:57] <Flameeyes> i can update the project page
[19:57] <Flameeyes> who's going to do the summary?
[19:57] <wolf31o2|mobile> Flameeyes: please do
[19:57] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: can you do the summary?
[19:57] <spb> in which case i shall move myself down the road and reappear in a few minutes
[19:57] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: you had some good summaries in between already :-)
[19:57] <vapier> hrm
[19:57] <vapier> meeting today huh
[19:57] <vapier> that's what i get for getting up late
[19:57] <Kugelfang> vapier: hehehe
[19:57] <wolf31o2|mobile> Kugelfang: I can try... I'll need to log it
[19:58] <robbat2> now that vapier is here
[19:58] <Kugelfang> so no slacker mark for vapier?
[19:58] <kingtaco|laptop> what about open discussion
[19:58] <kingtaco|laptop> or whatever
[19:58] <robbat2> can we decide quickly on times for the meeting?
[19:58] <Kugelfang> yes please
[19:58] --> eroyf|out has joined this channel (n=eroyf@gentoo/developer/eroyf).
[19:58] <Kugelfang> vapier: YOU ARE LATE!
[19:58] *** spb is now known as peer.
[19:58] <wolf31o2|mobile> well... my availability is pretty simple... 10am-6pm UTC -5
[19:59] <wolf31o2|mobile> mon-fri
[19:59] <robbat2> while 1900UTC does work presently for me, I'd prefer it 2-3 hours later
[19:59] <robbat2> wolf31o2|mobile, could you state as UTC for the moment please?
[19:59] <Kugelfang> yeah, please only UTC times
[19:59] <Flameeyes> that's 15-23 utc
[19:59] <wolf31o2|mobile> umm... 1500-2300
[19:59] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh... the -5 made it kinda easy
[19:59] <kingtaco|laptop> that works for me too
[19:59] <Kugelfang> for me too
[20:00] <kingtaco|laptop> pretty much any time as long as it's not sundays
[20:00] <Kugelfang> i'd like to keep the thursday
[20:00] <robbat2> my availability is reliably 2000-0300UTC weekdays, and mixed on weekends
[20:00] <Flameeyes> 15-23 for me too
[20:00] <Kugelfang> so, thursdays at 2000UTC ?
[20:00] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok... so thursday... maybe at 2000?
[20:00] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh
[20:00] <kloeri> 2100UTC would probably be the latest for me - unless I'm planning to be late for work once a month :)
[20:00] <kloeri> 2000 wfm
[20:00] <robbat2> 2000 Thursdays yes
[20:00] <Flameeyes> 2000 utc, second thursday then?
[20:00] <Kugelfang> 2000UTC wfm2
[20:00] <Kugelfang> yes
[20:00] <wolf31o2|mobile> vapier: how about you?
[20:01] <vapier> whatever
[20:01] <vapier> i dislike sleep
[20:01] <-- inc_ has left this channel.
[20:01] <wolf31o2|mobile> (now that you're awake)
[20:01] <wolf31o2|mobile> ok
[20:01] <wolf31o2|mobile> heh
[20:01] <wolf31o2|mobile> vapier: care to change your little script?
[20:01] * g2boojum notes that DST ends fairly soon; does that affect anybody's times?
[20:01] <vapier> was not aware that devmanual wasnt on gentoo hardware
[20:01] <wolf31o2|mobile> g2boojum: not mine... I took it into account
[20:01] <robbat2> g2boojum, that's why 1900UTC isn't ideal for me presently ;-)
[20:02] <wolf31o2|mobile> vapier: devmanual (the page) is... devmanual's repo isn't
[20:02] <vapier> ah
[20:02] <wolf31o2|mobile> so I guess that's it?
[20:02] <wolf31o2|mobile> open floor?
[20:02] <robbat2> yup
[20:02] <kingtaco|laptop> sure
[20:02] *** wolf31o2|mobile sets the channel mode to 'unmoderated'.
[20:02] <kloeri> nod
[20:02] <Kugelfang> so, outside of DST, 2000UTC is the same as 1900ZUTC in DST, right?
[20:02] <vapier> i dont think anyone commented on my "review" clause
[20:02] <vapier> we're talking just GLEPs right
[20:02] <welp[lap]> but thursday's a school night! :o
[20:03] <robbat2> vapier: when the meeting is over, email the alias with your contact details
[20:03] <wolf31o2|mobile> Kugelfang: 2000utc is always the same
[20:03] <nox-Hand> Hey! I can talk again?
[20:03] <GurliGebis_> I got a little thing I would like the council to have a look at
[20:03] <Kugelfang> wolf31o2|mobile: :-)
[20:03] <nox-Hand> vapier: they've missed you! :o
[20:03] <nox-Hand> welp[lap]: poke?
[20:03] <vapier> what contact details
[20:03] <welp[lap]> nox-Hand: unforunatly, yes you can
[20:03] <wolf31o2|mobile> brb... boss
[20:03] <nox-Hand> welp[lap]: lol
[20:03] <Flameeyes> vapier, phone number, mostly
[20:03] <nox-Hand> Interesting meeting. Very.....diplomatic
[20:04] <robbat2> vapier, real world ones, so we can phone you next time you're late
[20:04] <vapier> `jwhois wh0rd.org`
[20:04] <kloeri> GurliGebis_: state your question please
[20:04] <GurliGebis_> is it possible to get you to have a look at the bug about the wildcard ssl cert, and come to a conclusion? ( https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=117837 )
[20:04] <GurliGebis_> it's holding back the new bugday site
[20:05] *** GurliGebis_ is now known as GurliGebis.
[20:05] <Flameeyes> shouldn't that be a question for foundation?
[20:05] <christel> GurliGebis_: i thought we were waiting for the trustees on that one?
[20:05] <robbat2> could we consider StartCom for certs instead?
[20:05] <robbat2> they'd be free for the Class 1 CA
[20:05] <nox-Hand> Night folks, and thanks for an interesting meeting :P
[20:05] <robbat2> and have better inclusion than CACert
[20:05] <vapier> we leave funding as a foundation exercise ?
[20:05] <GurliGebis> christel, the bug has been standing still for a while
[20:06] <-- nox-Hand has left this server ("leaving").
[20:06] <GurliGebis> maybe they have forgot it
[20:06] <kloeri> funding is a foundation issue
[20:06] <robbat2> their Class 2 CA is not free, but still very cheap
[20:06] <christel> GurliGebis: i know :/
[20:06] <-- nephros has left this channel ("A trap door opens under you!").
[20:06] <kloeri> but I thought some company donated a wildcard cert a while back?
[20:06] <kingtaco|laptop> GurliGebis, you just got a new foundation, try talking to them
[20:06] <vapier> then there isnt much for the council to say other than "the trustees should be notified"
[20:07] <GurliGebis> okay, I'll try and contact them
[20:07] <GurliGebis> wasn't sure who to ask about it ;)
[20:07] <vapier> there is a nfp list
[20:07] <vapier> please use that rather than e-mailing the trustees alias
[20:07] <GurliGebis> nfp list?
[20:07] <g2boojum> We're waiting on -infra, incidentally, because a wildcard cert was donated.
[20:08] <agaffney> GurliGebis: gentoo-nfp (not for profit)
[20:08] <g2boojum> If -infra would rather we just buy one, I'm okay w/ that.
[20:08] <kloeri> g2boojum: that's my understanding as well
[20:09] <GurliGebis> hmm, waiting on -infra :(
[20:09] <GurliGebis> should I poke them?
[20:09] <vapier> seems to be the common theme
[20:09] <vapier> yes, infra needs much poking before something happens
[20:09] <g2boojum> GurliGebis: Go right ahead.
[20:09] <GurliGebis> :)
[20:10] <-- beu has left this server ("brb").
[20:10] <antarus|work> not like we don't have the cash :0
[20:10] <antarus|work> wihch reminds me...we have a few grand in SoC money coming
[20:11] <kloeri> cash could have been squandered away since the last report :)
[20:11] <robbat2> vapier: you may poke us, but we are working on things
[20:11] --> beu has joined this channel (i=beu@freenode/developer/gentoo.developer.beu).
[20:11] <Flameeyes> okay leaving a part the certificate issue
[20:11] <antarus|work> robbat2: you hiring? :)
[20:11] <vapier> where's my image gallery :p
[20:11] <Flameeyes> [that's now infra/foundation matter]
[20:11] <Flameeyes> any other question for the council?
[20:12] <kloeri> robbat2: make sure to let people know about that - that would probably reduce frustrations quite a bit
[20:12] <fmccor> I have an unfair one, if there's no one else.
[20:12] <Kugelfang> fmccor: shoot :-)
[20:12] <kloeri> robbat2: infra has been good about bugzie updates lately btw
[20:12] <robbat2> kloeri, yup, that's where I'm working at the moment
[20:12] <fmccor> As I say, this is unfair, because it's a new council.
[20:13] <robbat2> fmccor, vapier is still here, you can try to blame him
[20:13] <Flameeyes> robbat2, i was going to say that
[20:13] <fmccor> Now, necessarily, you all wear several hats, because you are all developers, in some cases, leads.
[20:13] <-- rhican has left this channel ("Ik ga weg").
[20:13] <frilled|home> robbat2: could you make kind of an "official" statement on how things are going with bugzie, then? I guess that would interest a lot of people :)
[20:14] <Kugelfang> fmccor: sooo?
[20:14] <kloeri> frilled|home: there's been several statements regarding bugzie the last few weeks
[20:14] <robbat2> frilled|home, let fmccor finish his point
[20:14] <fmccor> Which means situations can arise where there are conflicts of interest.  (E.g., voting on your own GLEP, considering an appeal from devrel, or whatever).
[20:14] <frilled|home> I know ^^
[20:14] <Kugelfang> fmccor: the previous council members didn't vote on their own stuff
[20:14] <fmccor> Well, no.
[20:15] <kloeri> we just have to abstain from voting in cases of conflict of interest
[20:15] <fmccor> My question is if there is a policy on that, or should there be?
[20:15] * robbat2 doesn't intend to vote on his own GLEP on signing in the tree when he finally gets it much closer to ready
[20:15] <Kugelfang> fmccor: i think we can handle that
[20:15] <fmccor> Fair enough.
[20:16] <Flameeyes> i agree with the others
[20:16] <robbat2> as an addenda to fmccor, could each of us perhaps have stated on the council page what our areas are that might be considered conflict of interest
[20:16] <fmccor> It's worth mentioning, though.
[20:16] <Flameeyes> robbat2, that's not an easy one
[20:16] <robbat2> Flameeyes, just generally, not specifically
[20:17] <robbat2> eg for myself, infra is my main involvement outside of development
[20:17] * g2boojum thinks that conflict-of-interest recusals are silly, since you folks are there to advance your (and your team's) interests.  That's why there's six other council members to outvote you if necessary.
[20:17] <vapier> that was part of the voting process
[20:17] <Kugelfang> *nod*
[20:17] <Kugelfang> there is just a slight move to AMD64 in here :-)
[20:17] <vapier> you werent supposed to run for council if you are unable to handle conflicts of interest
[20:18] <Flameeyes> vapier has a point, too
[20:18] <robbat2> g2boojum, I ask for the disclosure so that we can see for ourselves at least that there isn't any strange cabal here where a majority of council is also part of some other group
[20:18] <vapier> iirc, when the council was first formed, the conflict issue was much bigger as the devrel shakeup was going on at the sametime
[20:19] <vapier> which is why in the nomination list, we show all the groups each person is part of
[20:19] <Flameeyes> robbat2, it's a difficult one to decide what has to be put there and what not, what's a big involvement? lead? member? founding member?
[20:20] <g2boojum> robbat2: I'm not opposed to disclosure, but in general I'm w/ vapier.  It's not like what any of you do is secret, so if people voted you in w/o doing their research that's their problem.
[20:20] <Flameeyes> also, our roles aren't secret, there's the roll-call
[20:20] <Flameeyes> but might require updating
[20:20] <kingtaco|laptop> and ldap
[20:20] <robbat2> Flameeyes, a lot of updating
[20:20] <Flameeyes> robbat2, indeed
[20:21] <Flameeyes> robbat2, what would you think of updating at least the councilers' roles in the next days?
[20:21] <robbat2> g2boojum, ok, so you would say it's ok for us to vote on our own GLEPs by that then?
[20:21] <robbat2> Flameeyes, sure, I'll update mine
[20:21] <kloeri> I can update all the council members in ldap + roll-call
[20:21] <g2boojum> robbat2: Yep.
[20:21] <vapier> if you truly cant get over a personal conflict, then you are free to obstain over a point
[20:22] <Flameeyes> vapier, you forgot the prefix for the number tho
[20:22] <vapier> it's a US number
[20:22] <christel> Flameeyes: 001/+1
[20:22] <vapier> Flameeyes: arent you an american ? :p
[20:22] <kloeri> I'm more worried about appeals for devrel disciplinary actions than GLEPs personally
[20:22] <Flameeyes> vapier, >_<
[20:22] <Flameeyes> christel, yeah i knew that
[20:22] <g2boojum> Flameeyes: Most USians (myself included) have no idea what our prefix actually is.
[20:22] <kingtaco|laptop> 001
[20:22] <g2boojum> s/prefix/country code/
[20:22] <robbat2> actually the 00 depends where you are
[20:23] <kingtaco|laptop> it's 1!!!
[20:23] <robbat2> the + in +1 indicates whatever you outbound international prefix is
[20:23] <robbat2> '1' is the code for north america
[20:23] <Flameeyes> okay, done with the country code thing too
[20:25] <Flameeyes> by the way, do we want this in the log, should i cut it over it, or should leave it unedited?
[20:25] <robbat2> the above stuff about conflict-of-interest should probably be included
[20:26] <Flameeyes> robbat2, i meant the country code discussion, the conflict should be included for sure
[20:26] --> ferringb has joined this channel (n=bharring@c-24-21-135-117.hsd1.mn.comcast.net).
[20:26] <robbat2> maybe just leave the log up to the defined end of meeting unedited
[20:26] <robbat2> and let a summary come together
[20:27] <Flameeyes> acknowledged
[20:27] <Flameeyes> so?
[20:27] <Flameeyes> other questions, topics, or we end up here?
[20:28] <kloeri> I have no more for today
[20:28] <Kugelfang> i think we're done
[20:28] <kingtaco|laptop> done
[20:28] <robbat2> done
[20:28] <Flameeyes> vapier, wolf31o2|mobile?
[20:29] <Flameeyes> actually, wolf called a brb because of his boss a while back, so he's probably afk
[20:30] <Flameeyes> remains vapier, if he's still awake :)
[20:30] <vapier> ?
[20:30] <vapier> you asking me if i have any other topics ?
[20:30] <Flameeyes> vapier, yeah
[20:30] <vapier> i got nothin
[20:30] <Flameeyes> so the council meeting for 14 september 2006 closes here
