19:14 <@SwifT> shall we start the meeting, or adjourn it till next thursday?
19:16 <@seemant> spanky's on his way
19:16 <@seemant> finally got him
19:18 <@seemant> agriffis goes straight to voicemail
19:18 <@seemant> that makes what? 4 of us when spanky gets in
19:18 <@seemant> wait, solar's here too
19:18 <@seemant> so 5
19:22 <@SwifT> anyone mind me asking already something about the QA-glep?
19:23 < Halcy0n> That's why I was sticking around.  I have to leave soon to go home, so ask me now :P
19:23 <@SwifT> it's about some red tape; "the qa team" can, if the maintainer doesn't reply soon, take action... what is "the qa team"? any member or a set of members?
19:24 < Halcy0n> Any member
19:24 < Halcy0n> And to protect against any one person from doing something stupid, there is the additional clause about disagreements within the team.
19:24 <@SwifT> is the qa team just about the packages or does it also work on project sites, documentation and the like?
19:25 < Halcy0n> The team's primary concern (currently) is the tree.  That could always change later on, but right now, no.
19:26 <@SwifT> will someone of the team ever fill out the qa project site so that it contains a description, goals ? :)
19:26 < Halcy0n> Well, the GLEP is basically the description :)  I hope to get the devmanual up there somehow soon as well.
19:28 -!- vapier [i=UserBah@wh0rd.org] has joined #gentoo-council
19:28 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+o vapier] by ChanServ
19:28 -!- agriffis [n=agriffis@gentoo/developer/agriffis] has joined #gentoo-council
19:28 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+o agriffis] by ChanServ
19:28 < Halcy0n> And our subprojects are probably the things that will have goals.  I'm not sure overall what QA would have as a goal besides to "improve stuff" :)
19:29 <@agriffis> hey, you all arrived early!
19:29 <@SwifT> glep looks fine by me otherwise; especially since it is hard to interprete it the "I will own you all"-way. Good timelines/guidelines and putting less 
               easy decisions somewhere higher
19:30 <@vapier> we're discussing the QA stuff i assume
19:30 <@SwifT> I was just asking some questions like "tree or docs/site as well" (tree atm) and "the qa team can do stuff -> team is any member"
19:33 <@SwifT> anyone else having questions about the QA-glep?
19:34 <@solar> I have no objections to g48.. I'd maybe reword s/look out for the best interests of all developers, as well as our users/look out for the best interest 
               of the tree/
19:34 <@solar> but thats not a big deal
19:36 <@vapier> i think at this point, if the QA team gets out of hand we can reel them in quickly
19:36 <@az> seems fine to me .. just wondering why if the QA team and dev do not agree, it is changed at all before the council meeting
19:36 <@az> just seems counter productive if the council is going to go the dev's way
19:37 <@SwifT> if its serious breakage, I'm sure no-one else (except the maintainer) would disagree
19:37 <@SwifT> (that it is changed up front)
19:37 <@az> i dont think it will reach the council if it was serious breakage
19:37 <@SwifT> :)
19:37 <@solar> note. we empowered the QA team todo these very things some time ago. One of our first council meetings if I recall.
19:38 <@seemant> in principle I have no problems with the glep at all -- I hope that it is implemented well and does in fact improve QA
19:38 <@seemant> solar: yeah, except we had no QA team back then
19:38 <@solar> we had people on the qa alias. We have always been fixing things that we saw fit
19:39 <@vapier> we had no team
19:39 <@solar> but nod.. Nothing offical before
19:39 <@seemant> yeah we had people on the alias
19:39 <@vapier> being on an alias a team does not make
19:39 <@seemant> yep
19:39 <@solar> it's still the same people
19:39 <@solar> so really nothings changed :p
19:39 <@seemant> solar: not quite -- I would Halcy0n has gone in and galvanised a team together
19:39 < Halcy0n> solar: also, not everyone on the alias is listed as a team member.
19:39 <@seemant> solar: he's basically taken the reins -- nobody actyually did that before
19:39 <@solar> seemant: yeah I know. I'm on it
19:39 <@seemant> and I can not spell
19:40 <@SwifT> perhaps the authority of the team lead (for adding additional members) could be moved to a team decision?
19:42 < Halcy0n> SwifT: as I saw it, the team picks the lead, so instead of making it an entire process, I figured they could just trust who they chose :)
19:43 <@SwifT> just proposing... it looks like something some people might want to counter in the glep
19:44 <@SwifT> but I wouldn't mind; after all, in larger environments it is too the manager that gets the decision
19:44 <@SwifT> seemant: note that I can't make well-formed English sentences
19:45 <@vapier> Halcy0n: so was everything on the mailing list that devs brought up resolved to satisfaction ?  seems like the last thread went well
19:46 < Halcy0n> vapier: as far as I'm aware, yes.  THe last thread actually stayed on topic, so I was happy :)
19:48 <@seemant> well, then I vote to approve the glep
19:49 <@SwifT> i'm in favor
19:50 <@agriffis> Am I able to abstain?  If not, then I'll vote in favor, but I have to admit I'm just going with teh flow.  I haven't kept up with the recent 
                  discussion around this GLEP.
19:51 <@agriffis> (I mean that I haven't read the ML lately)  :-|
19:52 <@SwifT> sure
19:53 <@solar> is this the vote?
19:53 <@SwifT> well yes, yes is it
19:53 <@solar> yes
19:55 < Halcy0n> Well, since you guys are done asking me question, I have to run.  Thanks :)
19:55 <@SwifT> thanks for being here 
19:55 <@az> yes
19:55 <@az> and if nothing else, im off ... ?
19:56 <@SwifT> unclosed foot-wall
19:57 <@SwifT> no other questions?
19:57 <@solar> I have no questions.
19:58 <@SwifT> me neither
19:58 <@solar> thanks for taking the time to establish that glep to make things official Halcy0n

