First, we voted if we should allow "impromptu" meetings, outside of the
monthly schedule.  This passed with 6/7 votes, with vapier abstaining
due to tardiness.  The consensus on the meetings is as follows:

We will allow meetings outside of the schedule on time sensitive issues.
The meeting needs more than 5 council members, and it should be done
with no less than 3 days notice, unless the council unanimously decides
to hold it sooner.

Next were concerns brought about from the QA team.  We decided (6/7,
vapier abstaining) that the QA team should work with other concerned
parties to determine the requirements for moving the devmanual SVN to
Gentoo infrastructure, since it is considered an official Gentoo
product, before any further decision on it can be made.  It was also
decided that the QA team should work on their own policies, with input
from other teams, for approval by the council.  The council volunteered
to assist in coordination, if necessary.

Next, we decided to push the monthly meetings to 2000UTC on the second
Thursday of the month to better suit the new council's availability.

During the open floor, we decided that there was no need to mention
conflicts for most council members, as we should all be adults and
capable of making unbiased decisions.  The exception to this (being
adults... just kidding...) was kloeri in response to escalations from
devrel, as he is the lead there.  This also lead to roll-call being
updated to show everyone's current roles, so transparency is maintained.

After some minor discussion about USians not knowing their own country
code (*grin*) we adjourned.
