Agenda was:
1. Reply-to-list
2. SPF
3. QA update / plans
4. Bugzilla status

1. Council decided that there were no need to change mailinglist behaviour
regarding reply-to-list. Bryan Østergaard (kloeri) mentioned that a
replytolist plugin for thunderbird-2 had just been committed the day
before. Bryan will update the handbook to include information on
procmail recipes to change reply-to behaviour on an individual basis.
Bug 154595 tracks progress of this update.

2. Council decided that Infra needs to document use of third party smtp
servers and usage of dev.gentoo.org SMTP server. Bug 154594 tracks this
issue.

3. Bryan Østergaard gave a short update on QA team on behalf of Stephen
Bennett (spb). Plans currently include:
- Documenting EAPI-0 and PMS (Package Manager Standard)
- Doing more automated QA checks.
- Implementing GLEP 48 (see http://glep.gentoo.org/glep-0048.html)
- Working out what each QA team member wants to work on.

4. Robin Johnson (robbat2) gave a quick status update on bugzilla. The
load-balanced mysql is working very well now but there's still some
webserver tuning that needs to be done. There's no timeframe as such as
there might still be unexpected issues cropping up.

Open floor discussion:
Torsten Veller asked if there was any news on portage tree signing.
Robin Johnson said there was no news as he'd spend all his time working
on new bugzilla setup and anonymous cvs.
