Summary of 11 October 2007 council meeting

Present: all members, josejx proxying for lu_zero

=========================================================================
"What are not clear are (1) whether the Code of Conduct is in effect; (2)
if so, how we enforce it."

- The CoC is in effect, but it needs a new enforcement section since the 
proctors were disbanded. The council is sending discussion of this to 
the gentoo-project list, to come up with proposals for three points:
	- who enforces it
		- musikc said devrel could
		- tsunam said userrel could
	- how to enforce it
		- whether it's active or passive enforcement
		- which actions are appropriate

- If the -project list does not come up with a draft, dberkholz will 
write one based on -project discussion to vote upon at the November 
council meeting.

=========================================================================
packages.gentoo.org: https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=187971
	comment #86 from marduk on rewrite
	comment #90 re jokey's rewrite (comment #85)

- The infrastructure team will decide the future of packages.gentoo.org.

- KingTaco informed us that the current code will probably not return. 
Alternatives include:

	- http://packages.gentooext.net/ (written by jokey)
	- http://spaceparanoids.org/gentoo/gpnl/ (written by beandog)
	- http://gentoo-portage.com/

- Until we get a replacement, packages.gentoo.org will link to 
alternatives. It now links to a forums thread describing them.

=========================================================================
GLEP 39: project RFC addition

- We will amend the GLEP rather than writing a new one, and a note will 
be added saying the GLEP was amended.

=========================================================================
When does the new council term end?

- Voting will always take place the same month, as mentioned in 
http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/52081/focus=52143

- If the new council is delayed, it gets a slightly shortened term.

=========================================================================
Open floor

- Where is the PMS repo?
	- robbat2 has imported it. It's in git. Need to ping him for 
	details.

- The channel was not moderated during the meeting and it went well. 
Let's try that again next time.
