- Council vote approves jaervosz replacing kloeri.

- robbat2 to write a doc on using Git to access the PMS repo (which presently
  just mirrors the SVN). spb to bug robbat2 if he doesn't get said doc.

- Large discussion about handling of mailing lists, including proctors and
  moderation. Vote is proposed for:
  1. Having a seperate unmoderated -project (in the fashion of Debian's -project). 
  2. -dev becoming moderated for non-@gentoo, as well as any @gentoo that with
  to be moderated, or have flamish tendancies.
  3. Moderaters are a seperate and more open group from proctors. Mainly devs,
  and are expected to show good judgement (see Catalyst item).
- Decision is made to send the above to -dev list for discussion, and have an
  intermediate meeting in 2 weeks. Non-binding vote by council gets 4 yes
  votes and one no.
  
- Musikc had sent an email to council about the proctors process and the CoC.
  This leads into a discussion of the FreeNode Catalyst system, which was a
  partial basis for the CoC. Rough agreement that in an ideal work, all
  developers should act as positive catalysts, but this is a lot harder than
  it seems.
  1. The moderation discussion needs to be integrated into musikc's document.
  2. More catalyst material into the CoC per Proctor's revisions.
  3. Musikc needs to send her mail to the lists in a week.
