Roll call
=========

(here, proxy [by whom] or slacker?)

amne        here
betelgeuse  here, but 1h20m late of the 2h meeting [server problems]
dberkholz   here
flameeyes   here
lu_zero	    here
vapier      proxy [halcy0n]
jokey       here

Updates to last month's topics
==============================

	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/meeting-logs/20080110-summary.txt

	Code of Conduct enforcement
	---------------------------
	Last month:
		Council members agreed on the direction.

		dberkholz will provide additional details on -council ML
	Updates:
		dberkholz posted a simple suggestion to -council last night:
		http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-council/msg_ba125098c929ea31f34051dfb009d436.xml

		The basic idea is to just promote individual devs responding to
		people who are being jerks. Privately, unless things get out of hand.

		Council supported the implementation.
		dberkholz will get things going.

	Document of being an active developer
	-------------------------------------
	Last month:
		dberkholz and araujo will look into a scribus based template.

		Devrel will have to generate a signing key for these purposes.
	Updates:
		araujo was working on a script to automatically insert data into XML
		in scribus or inkscape formats. He said he would work on it
		this weekend.

		Template file on hold pending format decision from script

		Any news from devrel on key? dberkholz pinged musikc for an update.

	Slacker arches
	--------------
	Last month:
		vapier will work on rich0's suggestion and repost it for 
		discussion on -dev ML
	Updates:
		No changes.

	GLEP 54: scm package version suffix
	-----------------------------------
	Last month:
		Sent back to -dev. peper was to repost it.
	Updates:
		No discussion on -dev. No resubmission to council.

	GLEP 55: Use EAPI-suffixed ebuilds (.ebuild-EAPI)
	-------------------------------------------------
	Last month:
		Sent back to -dev
	Updates:
		No discussion on -dev. No resubmission to council.

New topics
==========

GLEP 46: Allow upstream tags in metadata.xml
--------------------------------------------
	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0046.html
	http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev/msg_46d474d621455bc204654dc483e87cc5.xml

	Approved, with a caveat
		Questions were raised about requiring http:// and https:// only.
		What about ftp:// ? What about no limitation, and requiring 
		tools to throw out protocols they don't recognize?
		Why is that restriction there?

		Once those questions are resolved, it will be finalized.

EAPI=1: Where is the approved specification?
--------------------------------------------
	http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev/msg_e1b4a369534e30b8a64c6c6429cfe729.xml

	A long discussion was had about whether we should continue using 
	EAPI=1 when we don't have EAPI=0 approved, reverting EAPI=1, and the 
	value of specifications in producing quality code. People generally 
	agreed about not adding any new EAPIs until the PMS for EAPI=0 is 
	approved, but there wasn't agreement on changing anything about 
	EAPI=1.

	To make forward progress, Halcy0n agreed to work on getting the PMS 
	ready for EAPI=0. He asked for anyone else interested to contact him 
	so we can get it done and approved ASAP.

	Halcy0n will give us an update at the next council meeting.
