Roll call
=========

(here, proxy [by whom] or slacker?)

amne        here
betelgeuse  here
dberkholz   slacker [39 minutes late]
flameeyes   here
lu_zero	    here
vapier      here
jokey       here

Updates to last month's topics
==============================

	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/meeting-logs/20080214-summary.txt

	Document of being an active developer
	-------------------------------------
	No updates

	Slacker arches
	--------------
	2 months ago:
		vapier will work on rich0's suggestion and repost it for 
		discussion on -dev ML
	Updates:
		vapier said he was going to work on it this weekend.

	GLEP 46: Allow upstream tags in metadata.xml
	--------------------------------------------
	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0046.html

	Last month:
		Caveat on approval about allowed protocols
	Updates:
		No updates; no authors present

	EAPI=0
	------
	Last month:
		Halcy0n was working on it
	Updates:
		Ciaran has been contributing and has committed quite a few 
		things. Halcy0n hopes to work on it in the next couple of weeks. 
		He informed us that Ciaran said when he finishes the environment 
		tables, EAPI=0 is probably a week of solid work from having a 
		draft for review.

		Halcy0n wasn't around when the topic came up, so the above info 
		was from after the meeting.

New topics
==========

	Summer of Code
	--------------
	Should Gentoo devs be allowed to participate?

	GNOME's policy is that they favor people who haven't contributed 
	before, but they will accept great projects from contributors.

	Decision: Council members will become additional SoC admins, and 
	will serve as tiebreaker votes if they aren't actively participating 
	in SoC project selection.

	Decision: Gentoo SoC admins will decide whether non-contributors 
	should be favored over contributors.

	Package maintainers
	-------------------
	Proposed by killerx (anant)

	Decision: We'll promote proxy-maintainers more -- GMN, website, etc.

	amd64 arch team and big bug list
	--------------------------------
	Proposed by armin76 (raul)

	kingtaco (mike) said it's hard to keep people interested in 
	keywording.

	Anyone interested has had permission to keyword and stabilize 
	non-system packages since 2007.1 (see -core email from kingtaco with 
	subject "AMD64 keywording").

	Open floor
	----------
	A list of required attendees would be useful. dberkholz will start 
	creating the agenda along with this list in advance of the meeting.
	Posting the agenda on a google calendar, along with other stuff, 
	could help. flameeyes is starting to work with the PR team on this.
