Roll Call:
===========
Betelgeuse: here
Cardoe: absent
dberkholz: here
dertobi123: here
dev-zero: here
leio: here
lu_zero: here 
tanderson(secretary): here

Topics:
===========
    
GLEP 55:
    Petteri noted that portage had recently gotten support for both GLEP
    55 and the parse-eapi proposal. Petteri will have benchmarks done by
    the next meeting.

EAPI-3 Proposals:
    A call for objections to/questions about any of the various proposals
    was asked for. What follows is a list of proposals to which objections were
    raised or for which there are open questions as well as who raised the
    points.

    slot operator support:
        leio, open questions, position pending on answers
    default_src_install:
        leio, open questions
        dberkholz
        dertobi123
    doinclude:
        dberkholz
        leio
    dosed:
        dberkholz
    unpack failing on unknown types:
        dberkholz
    docompress:
        leio, needs to review proposal and prepalldocs
        dev-zero, thinks it's useless
    doexample:
        dev-zero, thinks it should have -r if we have it at all
    dohard being deprecated:
        leio, thinks it should remain and have its bugs fixed.
    disable-dependency-tracking:
        lu_zero, possible breakage of configure scripts(mplayer & ffmpeg mentioned)
    utility commands should die by default:
        leio, open questions
    ban || ( foo? ( . ) . ):
        leio, sees no reason to ban something that might have some valid use cases

    One part of the EAPI-3 discussion is whether to have variables that
    behind-the-scenes control the default functions. The DOCS variable was
    created so that a list of documentation to install can be passed to
    default_src_install. A 4-2 vote approved the DOCS variable for use in
    src_install. Specific details have not yet been worked out.

Open Floor:
===========

Ned Ludd(solar) requested that the council discuss a migration of KEYWORDS out
of ebuilds to be discussed at the next meeting.
