Roll Call:
===========
Betelgeuse: here
Cardoe: here
dberkholz: here
dertobi123: here
dev-zero: here
leio: here
lu_zero: To Be Determined, 37 minutes late
tanderson(secretary): here

Topics:
===========

EAPI-3 Proposals:

    Note: The following two proposals were discussed before it was realized
    that there was not sufficient time to discuss all of them. At that point a
    call for objections to any of the proposals found at [1] was asked for,
    and none were made. A full list of proposals for EAPI 3 follow.

    - New phase: pkg_pretend
        This phase is most useful for displaying conflicting USE flags at
        dependency resolution time(pretend), though it has various other uses
        so that errors about installing the package can be displayed before
        installation of packages begin.

        Conclusion:
            Approved for the draft.

    - [flag(+/-)] USE dependencies
        This may be needed when one wishes to depend on a package with a
        certain USE flag but if the USE flag is not present in that package
        assume it is on or off(+ and - respectively).

        Conclusion:
            Approved for the draft.

    - Multislot Dependency Specifications
        This allows ebuils to tell the package manager that runtime
        dependencies are not swappable(:1 installed at runtime can't be
        removed even though :2 'satisfies' the dependency).

    - PROPERTIES mandatory in cache
        Some information provided by this variable is useful at --pretend
        time(interactive packages). 

    - DEFINED_PHASES mandatory in cache
        Same reasons as for PROPERTIES, but is also useful for determining
        the phases a package provides with just the cache.

    - Provide a default src_install prototype.
        Get rid of the need for the src_install functions with just `emake
        install` in them. Some discussion is needed to clear up issues with a
        DOCS variable for extra documentation and a list of docs to
        automatically get installed.

    - Provide a `docompress` function.
        This function serves as a replacement for prepalldocs. `docompress`
        can optionally compress files in /usr/share/doc according to a set of
        inclusion and exclusion lists.

    - Provide a '-r' option to `dodoc`
        Providing a way to put `dodoc` in recursive mode is widely accepted.

    - Make `doins` preserve symlinks
        This obsoletes the `cp -R` constructs frequently seen and is easy to
        implement.

    - Limit values in $USE to those in $IUSE.
        Certain USE_EXPAND flags may be in USE even if they aren't
        specifically set in IUSE. Eliminate this.

    Next Action:
        The Council agreed to have portage implement as many of these as
        possible in a month and then make that EAPI 3.

Technical Agenda Items:

    - GLEP 54
        Thomas(tanderson) sent out a comparison of GLEP 54 and the liveebuild proposals.
        Among those discussing GLEP 54 there was a general consensus that
        there was nothing wrong with it as a first step to get correct
        ordering. Luca(lu_zero) commented that all he was concerned about was
        that there was not enough 'meat' to the GLEP.

        Next Action:
            Doug(Cardoe) and Luca(lu_zero) intend to write a
            GLEP to handle the second part of the problem(making the revision
            available to ebuilds/package manager/users.

    - GLEP 55
        Petteri, Zac, and Ciaran were supposed to benchmark the various
        proposals and report back. Zac did not write the code for portage so
        Petteri had nothing to report on this issue. Ciaran commented that
        the solutions other than GLEP 55 had a 50% slowdown in the valid cache
        situation compared to GLEP55, but did not post the raw numbers or the
	    patches used.

        Next Action:
            Zac needs to benchmark the proposals in portage.

Open Floor:
===========

- Migration of KEYWORDS from ebuilds to profiles:
  Ned Ludd(solar) brought this up, but it came up in the middle of agenda
  items so was not talked about much. Some points were made that such a scheme
  would require a git conversion, but nothing was agreed upon. 


References:
[1]: http://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=pPAJXP6shYH78lCXeqRqCUQ
