1. Intro 

  1.2. Roll call.
> Missing: lu_zero.

  1.3. Any volunteers to chair this meeting?
> solar volunteered.

2. Meeting format

  2.1. Should the channel be moderated during council meetings?
  > Yes: solar, calchan, dertobi123, ulm, leio, betelgeuse.
  > No: none.

    2.1.1. If yes, moderate the channel now.
    > solar moderated the channel at 1816UTC.

    2.1.2. If yes, should council members watch another channel in order to
    paste ideas/propositions from the latter to the council channel?
    > No: solar, calchan, betelgeuse, dertobi123, ulm.
    > Yes: leio.

  2.2. Do we need a secretary?
  > Yes: calchan, betelgeuse, dertobi123, ulm, solar, leio.
  > No: none.
  > The secretary's role will be limited to providing logs and summaries of
  > the meetings.

    2.2.1. If yes, does the secretary need to be a council member?
    > No: ulm, solar, dertobi123, leio, betelgeuse, calchan.
    > Yes: none.

      2.2.1.2. If no, do we confirm gentoofan23?
      > Yes: solar, calchan, leio, dertobi123, ulm, betelgeuse (?).
      > No: none.

    2.2.2. Do we need a backup?
    > No: dertobi123, leio, calchan.
    > Yes: none.
    > Did not vote: betelgeuse, solar, ulm.

  > Betelgeuse requested a vote on whether drafts had to be reviewed on the
  > private alias instead of on the public mailing-list.
  > Public: betelgeuse, calchan, leio.
  > Private: solar, dertobi123, ulm.
  > The decision was made to wait for lu_zero's vote by email.

    2.2.3. gentoofan23 is away for this week, so if yes to 2.2.1.2 we need to
    look for a secretary for this meeting. Volunteers?
    > Question not asked.

      2.2.3.1. If no make it an action that we look for one (who, by when?).
      > Not done.

3. GLEP 39

  3.1. Can the council decide on the process of voting amendments to GLEP 39
  without an all-developers vote?
  > No: betelgeuse, dertobi123, solar, ulm.
  > Yes: calchan, leio.

  3.3. If no to 3.1 make it an action to see with the elections project that
  all developers vote on 3.2 (who, by when?).
  > Not done.

4. Meeting schedule

  4.1. Periodicity.
  > Monthly: solar, calchan, dertobi123, ulm, betelgeuse, leio.
  > Every two weeks: none.

  4.2. Depending on 4.1 and your availability what week would you like to meet?
  > Third monday of the month.

  4.3. Do we keep using a Doodle poll to decide when in the week we meet?
  > Only in case of personal schedule issues, assuming a warning long enough
  > in advance.
