2010-11-30 Council meeting summary
==================================

members present:
	betelgeuse, chainsaw, ferringb, jmbsvicetto, scarabeus, wired
member missing, no proxy announced:
	halcy0n

Agenda:
	EAPI 4
	la files removal status/progress
	future meetings

What happened:

	future meetings
	---------------

	We've talked [on alias] about alternating between Tuesdays and
	Saturdays, because Halcy0n can't do weekdays and Chainsaw couldn't do
	weekends.
	
	In the meeting it turned out that Chainsaw can do Saturdays,
	although the timing is really hard for ferringb.

	We decided to have our next meeting on Saturday the 18th of December,
	at 1500 UTC. jmbsvicetto will chair.

	We'll keep switching between Tuesdays and Saturdays for the time
	being to try and accomodate all members.

	EAPI 4
	------

	The council agreed that the current EAPI-4_pre1 implementation is
	pretty good. Ulm will work on a PMS patch for EAPI-4.  He will
	create a final tag, that will also include one extra feature, a var
	called MERGING_FROM, available in pkg_* phases, with the following
	possible values: ["source","binary"].

	The tag will then be approved by the council, either by email or in a
	meeting, whatever is faster. Our goal is to have EAPI-4 before 2010
	ends.

	la files removal status/progress
	--------------------------------

	Nothing has happened since the last meeting. Jorge did start some ML
	threads, but there was no interest in the subject.

	This needs to be done:
	1. write a doc (w/ Diego's blog as source)
	2. publish news item
	3. get portage 2.1.9 stable
	4. let devs remove la files.

	Since no-one volunteered to do 1, we'll push it to the ML.
