Gentoo Council 20100714 meeting goals:

      * have the first public meeting of the new council
      * set some base rules for the operation of the new council
      * allow council members to present issues to work on this term
      * listen to the community to check whether there are any issues it wants to bring to the attention of the council
      * continue discussion about required-use and --as-needed to prepare a vote in the 26/7 meeting


Gentoo Council 20100714 meeting agenda:

      * allow all members to show up (5 min)
      * select the probable date for the monthly meetings (5 min)
      * discuss desired model of operation (15 min)
        - using bugs to track issues
        - have a section on all meetings to check the bugs status
        - ability to have 2nd monthly / impromptu meetings when required
        - secretary / meeting chair
      * allow council members to present issues to be addressed in this term (15 min)
      * listen to the community to see if there are any issues it would like to see the council address in this term (10 min)
      * require-use discussion (10 min)
      * --as-needed discussion (10 min)
      * Any Other Business (5 min)


Roll call:
      * betelgeuse   here
      * chainsaw     here
      * ferringb     late (30 minutes)
      * halcy0n      here
      * jmbsvicetto  here
      * scarabeus    here
      * wired        here


Gentoo Council 20100714 meeting summary:

      * allow all members to show up (5 min)
        Brian (ferringb) arrived 30 minutes late.


      * select the probable date for the monthly meetings (5 min)
        1900 UTC, 2nd Monday of each month


      * discuss desired model of operation (15 min)

        - using bugs to track issues
        bugs for now (without any restrictions, fully visible and editable by any registered user)
        rails project for council management is under development, will check that when finished

        - have a section on all meetings to check the bugs status
        discussion about bug progress should happen on each meeting.
        each bug will have an assigned named council member that should be responsible for its tracking
        we may use bugzilla voting capabilities if deemed useful

        - ability to have 2nd monthly / impromptu meetings when required
        there can be any number of meetings during the month, with the requirement of a minimal 1 week advance notice

        - secretary / meeting chair
        council members will replace a secretary by using google wave to create meeting summaries on the fly
        the chair of a meeting is going to be decided at the end of the previous meeting. scarabeus volunteers to be default fallback
        the selected chair is responsible for the initial email and the upcoming meeting agenda, as well as committing the summary of the meeting he chairs.


      * allow council members to present issues to be addressed in this term (15 min)

        Chainsaw - to kill (the official status of) overlays ; to review package maintenance policy
        jmbsvicetto - to continue the work to review GLEP39 and Gentoo's metastructure ; to study and promote ways to allow more involvement from community
        scarabeus - increase QA of the tree (be more strict with developers) and revive GWN
        ferringb - make council less involved in day-to-day matters and more focused on bigger picture
        wired - decisive and effective council
        halcy0n - bigger QA hammer, easier and more straight rules for joining or helping out in our community
        betelgeuse - putting GSoC results to some good use ; mostly PM stuff


      * listen to the community to see if there are any issues it would like to see the council address in this term (10 min)

        tanderson - have the council decide on proposals solely on their merit and not on the person who submits them


      * require-use discussion (10 min)

        skipped


      * --as-needed discussion (10 min)

        skipped - this issue is going to be discussed over mail and voted on next meeting. Note the word VOTE, so please raise your concerns on ML if required.


      * chair for next meeting (will write initial email, propose agenda and commit summary)

        wired


      * Any Other Business (5 min)

        none
