2010-10-26 Council meeting summary
==================================

All members present:
	betelgeuse, chainsaw, ferringb, jmbsvicetto, halcyon, scarabeus, wired

Agenda:
	ferringb forgot to send meeting related mail, so there was no
	announced agenda.

Topics discussed:

	la files
	--------

	The council decided that removing la files is the right thing to do,
	but the whole thing will be taken to the -dev ML to allow devs to
	express their opinions/objections, if any. Jorge will handle this.

	The removal will only happen after portage-2.1.9 or later is
	stabilized, since this is the first version that can fix la files
	automatically.

	At that time, a news item will be released to inform users on how to
	fix any issues that may arise from the removal.

	EAPI 4
	------

	few_ suggested finalizing EAPI 4 with the features currently
	implemented in portage (bug #273620).

	we agreed that this is a good idea, as long as a spec list is built
	and PMS patches are written for all the features.

	ferringb will write documentation for REQUIRED_USE.

	the council will finalize things in the next meeting. people
	responsible for EAPI 4 should be pinged beforehand so they can attend
	that meeting.
