19:00 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: if we dont have any topic, i would like to talk about livedvd, but for that i need only you :D
19:00 <@jmbsvicetto> :)
19:02 <@jmbsvicetto> alright, let's do the roll call
19:02 -!- Chainsaw [~chainsaw@gentoo/developer/atheme.member.chainsaw] has joined #gentoo-council
19:02 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+o Chainsaw] by ChanServ
19:03  * Halcy0n raises his hand.
19:03 <@jmbsvicetto> so who's around here?
19:03  * Chainsaw raises both hands, just to be different
19:03  * scarabeus moves from the bar
19:03 <@jmbsvicetto> wired: ping
19:05 <@jmbsvicetto> can anyone ping / phone ferringb?
19:05 < Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: Can't be that hard to find topics. After all, most of you had splendid manifestos. Chainsaw wanted to discourage the usage of overlays and find a solution for maintainer-needed packages. Then there's betelgeuse's webapp thing. Halcyon wanted "to get innovation starting in Gentoo again" so there should be lots to discuss. ferringb wanted to reform the council election process and the council itself. jmbsvicetto
19:05 < Philantrop> wanted to re-work GLEP39 and lots of other things. wired wanted to be "swift, decisive, vigilant". So, guys, I'm sure you've all worked hard on your goals. Wouldn't it be time to discuss each of your progress?
19:05 -!- [Enrico] [~chiccoroc@gentoo/contributor/Enrico] has joined #gentoo-council
19:05 <@wired> I'm here
19:06 <@jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: yes, I need to start the discussion about my goals. You are correct
19:06 < mama> Philantrop, your 2nd last was cut on "itself. jmbsvicetto"
19:08 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: i dont have phone at my hand, actualy i really dunno where i put it; grm ; so i cant call anyone :)
19:08 <@Halcy0n> I'm not sure where I put all of your numbers...looking now :)
19:09 < NeddySeagoon> Just start - you have a quorum and its +8 min in
19:10 <@wired> my goals are really off because real life has been dominating lately
19:10 <@wired> I'm hoping to get some free time soon
19:10 < NeddySeagoon> wired, planning or hoping ?  planning is good, leaving it to chance ...
19:11 <@wired> yeah, planning is the right word ;)
19:11 -!- Betelgeuse [~betelgeus@gentoo/developer/Betelgeuse] has joined #gentoo-council
19:11 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+o Betelgeuse] by ChanServ
19:12 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, I caught Betelgeuse 
19:12 <@jmbsvicetto> so, let's move on
19:12 <@Betelgeuse> Hmm. Sorry about being late.
19:12 <@jmbsvicetto> We have no item in our agenda
19:12 <@Betelgeuse> Got burried in a debugging.
19:12 <@jmbsvicetto> Any of you wants to discuss anything before moving to the bugs?
19:13 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: FOSDEM?
19:13 <@Betelgeuse> How many of the council will be there?
19:13 <@scarabeus> i am still not sure if i get the money to actualy get there :)
19:13 <@wired> I'll be there
19:13 <@jmbsvicetto> I'm going to book my plane from Lisbon to Brussels later tonight
19:13 <@scarabeus> so for me it is "maybe"
19:14 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: We could consider organizing some kind of a QA session like there was some years back.
19:14 <@jmbsvicetto> That sounds a great idea
19:14 <@Halcy0n> I won't be there.
19:14 <@jmbsvicetto> we could also have a special "bugday" on Saturday or something similar to involve the community
19:15 < NeddySeagoon> Who is doing the organising now ?
19:15 <@Betelgeuse> NeddySeagoon: There's no need for much organising if we don't get a booth
19:15 <@Betelgeuse> Someone should organizer a dinner though
19:16 <@jmbsvicetto> I wouldn't mind organizing it, but I'm too far away for that :\
19:16 -!- anti[Enrico] [~chiccoroc@gentoo/contributor/Enrico] has joined #gentoo-council
19:17 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: bonsaikitten should be able to at least help you along
19:17 <@Betelgeuse> bonsaikitten: Assuming you are willing of course.
19:17 -!- ferringb [~ferringb@gentoo/developer/ferringb] has joined #gentoo-council
19:17 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+o ferringb] by ChanServ
19:17 <@Halcy0n> ferringb is on his way, btw.
19:17 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: The hard part is collecting info on who will attend.
19:17 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: And then getting everyone there :)
19:17 -!- [Enrico] [~chiccoroc@gentoo/contributor/Enrico] has quit [Disconnected by services]
19:17 -!- anti[Enrico] is now known as [Enrico]
19:18 < bonsaikitten> Betelgeuse: don't want to commit yet as I can't predict anything, but if I have the time ... yes, of course
19:18 <@ferringb> Betelgeuse: hard part is attending on time
19:18 <@Betelgeuse> ferringb: We were talking about FOSDEM
19:18 <@scarabeus> ferringb: which for you as USan is not so amusing i guess :)
19:19  * ferringb cracks the whip
19:19 <@jmbsvicetto> I suggest we plan to have dinner closer to Brussels this year
19:19 <@ferringb> Halcy0n: sorry, literally a mess atm- channel?
19:19 <@jmbsvicetto> I wouldn't mind the Italian we went close to Grand Place
19:20 <@ferringb> ahh right
19:20 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, so I'll try to arrange the dinner - possibly with bonsaikitten's help
19:21 < NeddySeagoon> jmbsvicetto, what night ?
19:21 <@jmbsvicetto> Saturday
19:21 <@scarabeus> friday is the event, so saturday as usuall
19:21 <@jmbsvicetto> NeddySeagoon: we usually meet at Delirium on Friday and plan the dinner for Saturday
19:21 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: you might also poke sabayoners :)
19:21 <@wired> is the booth a possibility?
19:22 <@jmbsvicetto> Anyone planning to arrive earlier or to leave later this year?
19:22 <@jmbsvicetto> wired: I don't think it'll be easy to get one, but in any case we should really, *really* get someone responsible for it before applying
19:22 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: Friday - Monday usually for me
19:23 <@wired> Jorge: I'm probably doing the Friday-Monday thing again
19:23 <@jmbsvicetto> yeah, I plan to arrive around 13H00 on Friday and leave around 14H00 on Monday
19:23 <@jmbsvicetto> we can talk off channel about accomodation
19:23 <@wired> indeed
19:23 <@jmbsvicetto> I'll ask about it in the FOSDEM thread
19:23 <@wired> sleep well ftw? hehe
19:24 <@jmbsvicetto> I would prefer a better (free?) wi-fi, but wouldn't mind getting there again
19:24 <@wired> ah yeah, the sad Internet story
19:24 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: there is no free wifi in brusell
19:24 <@scarabeus> i told you
19:24 <@scarabeus> move fosdem to prague :)
19:24 <@jmbsvicetto> I'll take my extension cords again
19:24 <@wired> :p
19:25 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: The hotel I have usually taken has had it included
19:25 <@jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: want to bring that to the FOSDEM distributions ml? ;)
19:25 <@scarabeus> :DDD
19:25 <@scarabeus> i want to live :)
19:25 <@ferringb> Halcy0n: side note, what hours works for you moving forward btw (that thread died off) ?
19:25 <@jmbsvicetto> Betelgeuse: we'll have to talk about it ;)
19:25 <@ferringb> afaik your hours are going to be even tighter than my own
19:26 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb / Halcy0n: I think the first issue is what day of the week
19:26 <@Halcy0n> ferringb: I'm going to look at what people replied with and try to take it from there.
19:26  * ferringb notes wired's suggested time really won't fly
19:26 <@jmbsvicetto> scarabeus / wired / Betelgeuse: how flexible would you be about delaying the meeting hours on week days?
19:26 <@ferringb> that's 6am till noon on sunday
19:26 <@ferringb> or 3am till 6am on saturday, iirc
19:27 <@Halcy0n> I have to see what happens in the coming weeks for me.  I've been extremely busy lately.
19:27 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: i would rather go over weekends maybe :)
19:27 <@ferringb> pretty much for me, monday + noon is proving to be a serious killer
19:27 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: I could start an hour later
19:28 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: Or then it would have to be next morning
19:28  * ferringb notes an hour later has a decent chance of being less of a mess for him
19:28 <@jmbsvicetto> I can go up until 0000UTC on weedays and can go with weekends between 1100 UTC to 0100 / 0200 UTC
19:29 <@jmbsvicetto> Betelgeuse: about FOSDEM, anything else we should talk about nwo?
19:29 <@jmbsvicetto> now*
19:29 <@Halcy0n> As I said, its still very much up in the air for me.  I have to see how certain things work out.
19:29 <@ferringb> well
19:29  * ferringb can keep trying it, but noon/monday isn't flying at this point for him
19:29 <@ferringb> it was initially, but it's proving pretty hard to be timely
19:31 <@ferringb> push back of an hour on monday at least would be appreciated... else another weekday perhaps
19:31 <@wired> I'd be ok with that
19:31 <@jmbsvicetto> If no one else takes care of it, I can make the funding request to the trustees. I'll have to know what we want to get to FOSDEM first, though
19:31 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: let's continue mls
19:32 <@jmbsvicetto> So can we try to have the next meeting at 2000 UTC?
19:32 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: The booth dl is soon so we need to act on that if we want one
19:32 <@ferringb> Halcy0n: guessing it still is a mess either way for you w/ the extra hour?
19:32 <@jmbsvicetto> Betelgeuse: ok
19:32 <@Halcy0n> I'll be fine for a couple more weeks.  I'll have to see what happens after that.
19:32 <@jmbsvicetto> hmm, we need to check the day light time change for next meeting
19:33 <@jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: Do you still want to talk about the livedvd?
19:34 <@jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: is it related to FOSDEM and or a topic for this discussion or can / should we talk later about it?
19:34 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: well we should have it shipped rather soon, so we can release first bugfix for fosdem
19:34 <@scarabeus> and we should have some codename for it
19:34 <@scarabeus> cause 10.0 does not fit anymore ;)
19:34 <@jmbsvicetto> I thought people didn't want rolling code names anymore
19:34 < NeddySeagoon> 11.0 ?
19:35 <@jmbsvicetto> also, iirc there was a proposal recently to the dev ml to change the profiles naming
19:35 <@ferringb> infinity + 1
19:35 <@scarabeus> nah no need for new profile
19:35 <@wired> rolling is what we do
19:35 <@scarabeus> just codename
19:35 <@wired> :p
19:35 <@scarabeus> profiles should be updated if needed
19:35 <@scarabeus> not mandatory :)
19:35 <@jmbsvicetto> so, anything else or should we go over the bugs?
19:37 <@Halcy0n> I have no info for my bug as I haven't had much free time.  I also don't know how much of a problem it is since I haven't heard a lot of complaining lately about slacking arches.  If someone wants to take it over from me, since I'm going to be pretty busy the coming weeks, please do so, otherwise I'll look into it "soon".
19:38 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, so going over our bug list: http://www.google.com/url?sa=D&q=http%3A%2F%2Fbugs.gentoo.org%2Fbuglist.cgi%3Fquicksearch%3Dassignedto%2Ccc%3Acouncil%40gentoo.org
19:38 <@jmbsvicetto> bug 234706
19:38 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/234706 "Slacker arches"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:council@g.o
19:38 <@jmbsvicetto> no new info as Halcy0n reported
19:38 <@jmbsvicetto> bug 234711
19:38 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/234711 "GLEP 54: scm package version suffix"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:lu_zero@g.o
19:39 <@jmbsvicetto> as we talked about GLEP54 in last meeting, can we close this one?
19:39  * ferringb notes there is a minor modifier to 54 btw
19:40 <@jmbsvicetto> anyone?
19:40 <@ferringb> would've mentioned it last time around if I'd been in meeting- while I think in the current tree it's a no go, I don't see any reason folk can't reopen it down the line if repository watermarking or a new repo layout is created
19:40 <@ferringb> irreverent to the closing of the bug for the most part, just mentioning it to make my opinion known on that one
19:41 -!- [Enrico] [~chiccoroc@gentoo/contributor/Enrico] has left #gentoo-council ["http://quassel-irc.org - Chat comfortably. Anywhere. [Enrico] was here"]
19:42 <@jmbsvicetto> I see the summary doesn't list a decision, but iirc we made a choice about the suffix
19:43 <@ferringb> suffix was passed 4x2 if memory serves
19:43 <@ferringb> aka, close the ticket if there is nothing left to be done, else pass it off to affected folk
19:44  * ferringb notes his commentary is primarily aimed at 55 on that, although personal opinion is that applies to 54 also... that said ;)
19:45 <@wired> ftr, I have a new glep55 solution idea I have to write down
19:45 <@ferringb> anyone actually want to track/own that ticket council wise?
19:46 <@jmbsvicetto> sorry, was reading the log. From my reading we got a majority vote on _live
19:46 <@ferringb> hmm?
19:46 <@jmbsvicetto> the log for the last meeting
19:46 <@jmbsvicetto> Anyone wants to take care of this bug?
19:47 <@jmbsvicetto> for anyone distracted, bug 234711
19:47 <@ferringb> bahh. me is inverting 'em, aren't I :/
19:47 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/234711 "GLEP 54: scm package version suffix"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:lu_zero@g.o
19:47 <@jmbsvicetto> If no one wants to do it, I'll take care of this one
19:47 <@ferringb> jmbsvicetto: chatting w/ zac is wise on that at the very least
19:48 <@ferringb> jmbsvicetto: aka, in the loop and such
19:48 <@jmbsvicetto> sure
19:48 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, seems no one is stepping up, so I'll take care of this bug
19:48 <@jmbsvicetto> next, bug 237381 
19:48 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/237381 "Document appeals process"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:dberkholz@g.o
19:48 <@jmbsvicetto> This one is mine. I'll start a thread in the project ml about it tonight
19:48 <@jmbsvicetto> bug 316401 
19:48 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/316401 "Add resolution OBSOLETE"; Bugzilla, General Bugs; NEW; betelgeuse@g.o:bugzilla@g.o
19:48 <@jmbsvicetto> bug 316405
19:48 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/316405 "Disable resolutions LATER and REMIND"; Bugzilla, General Bugs; NEW; betelgeuse@g.o:bugzilla@g.o
19:49  * ferringb notes the next two are mostly infra
19:49 <@jmbsvicetto>  these two bugs are in the bugzilla team hands
19:49 <@jmbsvicetto> bug 331987
19:49 <@jmbsvicetto>  
19:49 < willikins> jmbsvicetto: https://bugs.gentoo.org/331987 "Merge -council and -project mailing lists"; Gentoo Infrastructure, Mailing Lists; NEW; scarabeus@g.o:infra-bugs@g.o
19:49 <@jmbsvicetto> this one is on infra.
19:49 <@jmbsvicetto> so, who wants to chair next meeting
19:49 <@jmbsvicetto> ?
19:49 <@ferringb> I'll do it if it's at 20 UTC :P
19:50 <@scarabeus> also guys i have on manifesto one thing i didnt kick my ass to do yet, the gwn, i hope i will have something for next meeting :)
19:50 <@ferringb> would definitely be interested in any notions for it
19:51 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb: Can you commit to it or would you prefer someone else volunteers for being chair of the meeting?
19:52 <@ferringb> can commit to 20 utc
19:52 <@jmbsvicetto> about the next date, do we want to have it on a Monday? (4, 11, 18, 25)
19:52 <@jmbsvicetto> and does anyone know when daylight savings kick in?
19:52 <@ferringb> tuesday perhaps?
19:52 <@jmbsvicetto> 5 is an holliday here, so I'm free ;)
19:53 <@ferringb> jmbsvicetto: 11/07 roughly for usian
19:53 <@jmbsvicetto> so, first question: Monday or Tuesday?
19:53 <@wired> last weekend of October in eu
19:53 <@jmbsvicetto> I can do both
19:53 <@wired> Jorge ^^
19:53 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb: ok, that doesn't affect next meeting
19:53 <@jmbsvicetto> wired: yeah
19:53 <@ferringb> jmbsvicetto: correction, 11/31
19:53 <@ferringb> *10/31
19:54 <@Halcy0n> I have no idea what my availability is yet, so just go ahead with whatever and I'll deal with it.
19:54 <@jmbsvicetto> wired / Betelgeuse / scarabeus / Chainsaw: Monday or Tuesday?
19:54 <@scarabeus> ok for me, both days
19:54 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: doesn't matter
19:54 <@wired> either is fine
19:54 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, Tuesday then
19:54 <@jmbsvicetto> 2000 UTC?
19:55 <@wired> ok
19:55 <@Chainsaw> Tuesday 2000 UTC works for me, thank you.
19:55 <@jmbsvicetto> Betelgeuse / scarabeus: 2000 UTC?
19:55 <@scarabeus> can be
19:56  * ferringb notes he appreciates it
19:56 <@jmbsvicetto> oh and what day of the month?
19:56 <@jmbsvicetto> 5, 12, 19 or 26?
19:56 <@jmbsvicetto> I think 5 is too short
19:56 <@jmbsvicetto> s/short/close/
19:56 <@ferringb> 12 is 15 days out
19:56 <@ferringb> 19th would get my vote, since I suspect there won't be much in the coming 3 weeks
19:57 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb: as you're going to chair it ;), what date do you suggest?
19:57 <@jmbsvicetto> 19th is ok for me
19:57 <@wired> fine for me too
19:57 <@ferringb> hokay
19:58 <@jmbsvicetto> scarabeus / Betelgeuse / Chainsaw / Halcy0n: 19th?
19:58 <@scarabeus> okchay
19:58 <@Betelgeuse> jmbsvicetto: ok
19:58 <@jmbsvicetto> anyone following the wave summary?
19:58 <@ferringb> 'ootay' would've been a better response :P
19:59 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, so let's move to the open floor
19:59 <@Chainsaw> Can't do 11-22
19:59 <@Chainsaw> So 19th doesn't work for me, sorry.
19:59 <@jmbsvicetto> Chainsaw: 26th?
20:00 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb: your suggestion
20:00 <@Chainsaw> jmbsvicetto: Yeah, 26th is fine.
20:00 <@jmbsvicetto> ?
20:00 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb / Halcy0n / Betelgeuse / wired / scarabeus: 26th?
20:01 <@ferringb> works for me
20:01 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: too
20:01 <@wired> a bit far away but I guess we can always reschedule if anything comes up
20:01 <@wired> so ok :)
20:01  * ferringb nods
20:02 <@ferringb> worst case we make chainsaw get himself a proxy (don't think anyone has used that card yet either) ;)
20:02 -!- jmbsvicetto changed the topic of #gentoo-council to: Next meeting 20101026 2000UTC | http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/utctolocal.html?time=2000
20:02 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb: ssuominem was proxy for scarabeus in last meeting
20:02 <@ferringb> stand corrected
20:03 <@jmbsvicetto> ferringb: Good luck and have fun with the next meeting ;)
20:03  * ferringb nods
20:03 <@scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: you forgot onto open floor
20:03 <@jmbsvicetto> I'll give another 30 minutes for the open floor and will then close this meeting
20:03 <@scarabeus> ah, hehe :D
20:04 <@jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I had typed to open it, but then Chainsaw said he couldn't do 19th and I was forgetting it now
20:04 <@jmbsvicetto> 19:59 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, so let's move to the open floor 
20:04 <@jmbsvicetto> Thanks guys for being around for our meeting
20:05 <@jmbsvicetto> in case any of you can, please check the summary in the wave
20:24 <@ferringb> doobie... doobie doo
20:27 -!- miknix [~miknix@gentoo/developer/miknix] has joined #gentoo-council
20:31 -!- miknix [~miknix@gentoo/developer/miknix] has quit [Client Quit]
20:44 <@jmbsvicetto> ok, meeting closed then
20:45 <@Chainsaw> Thank you.
