Gentoo Council 2010-07-26 meeting agenda / summary:

*** meeting outcome marked with "->" ***

* allow all members to show up (5 min)
	-> betelgeuse   here
	-> chainsaw     missing (1st absence)
	-> ferringb     here, left after an hour (before ML discussion)
	-> halcy0n      missing (1st absence)
	-> jmbsvicetto  here
	-> scarabeus    here
	-> wired        here

** vote **
	add --as-needed to default profile's LDFLAGS
		-> passed (unanimous vote)
			scarabeus will create a news item,
			ssuominen already pushed the actual change :D

** discuss / vote **
	* required-use: http://dev.gentoo.org/~ferringb/required-use.html
		-> accepted by all members

	* review eclass removal policy
		should it be 2 years since portage 2.1.4.4 went stable?
			-> all members agreed on removing the 2 year policy
			-> QA will write a devmanual patch with a 30+ minimum lastrite period for eclass removals

	* should there a policy about eclass API changes?
		-> we didn't reach a decision here, talk will continue in the mailing lists

	* use of invalid DEPEND atom "EAPI_TOO_OLD" instead of calling die in global scope on eclasses
		http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev/msg_dee3aab5e8c840ed3fa4add9c7d74b97.xml and replies
			-> the council opted for calling die instead of using the invalid DEPEND and required
				a patch to devmanual and PMS (ferring will do the devmanual patch)

	* mailing lists
		should we post council agenda to -council? -dev? -project?
		Some devs suggest we should cross-post to -dev and -council
			but not everyone likes cross-posting as it can lead to fragmentation.
		Petteri suggested punting -council and using -project instead
			-> there was a vote on punting -council that ended in a 2-2 tie (ferringb had left)
				jmbsvicetto and wired voted against, betelgeuse and scarabeus voted in favor
			-> discussion will be continued in the mailing lists

* go through bugs assigned to council@g.o

	https://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&emailassigned_to1=1&emailcc1=1&emailtype1=substring&email1=council%40gentoo.org&emailassigned_to2=1&emailreporter2=1&emailcc2=1&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&votes=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=

	bug #234706
		-> ask Halcy0n if he wants to resume work on this bug
	bug #256451
		-> ask ferringb if he still wants to do it
	bug #256453
		-> wired will take care of this
	bug #237381
		-> jmbsvicetto will take care of this

* open floor: listen to developers
	-> no input...

-> scarabeus will chair the next meeting
