Summary of the meeting of March 8th, 2010

Attendance
==========
Present:
 Betelgeuse
 Calchan
 dertobi123
 leio
 scarabeus
 solar
 ulm

Voting by email
===============
Ideas seemed to converge on how to vote by email but it was noted that this
would constitute a change of GLEP39 which the council can't modify without an
all-developers vote. Since there were already other changes planned or
suggested to GLEP 39 it was decided that the council would work on a new text
and submit it to a vote when ready. Calchan has volunteered to gather all ideas
and work on the text.

Do we want a policy for changes in metadata.xml?
===================================================
Adding such information to metadata.xml was considered a bad idea for two
reasons: this information is of no use to the users and would bloat the file
for no good reason, and it would be a technical answer to a mostly social
problem. It was suggested that reducing territoriality could help. Ideas were
proposed like making it official that after sending an email to the
maintainers and waiting one week anybody could touch a package.  In the end it
wasn't clear what exact problem was to be solved. So scarabeus volunteered to
animate the discussions on the mailing list. The goal is to find out what the
source of the problem is and what solution(s) we can apply.

Conclusion
==========
See above for actions.
The next meeting will be on April 19th 2010.
ulm will take care of following discussions and preparing the agenda.

Open floor
==========
vapier suggested that we keep the Gentoo calendar updated with the council
meeting dates, which was done for the next meeting.
