Council 2011/07/15 meeting summary
==================================


Agenda
------

 * allow all members to show up (5 min)

 * select the probable date for the monthly meetings (5 min)
 * discuss desired model of operation (15 min)
 * allow council members to present issues to be addressed in this term (15 min)
 * listen to the community to see if there are any issues it would like
   to see the council address in this term (10 min)
 * next meeting date / chair

 * Open Floor (10 min)
       

Meeting
-------

 * roll call

    here:

    Betelgeuse
    chainsaw
    dberkholz
    grobian
    hwoarang
    jmbsvicetto
    ulm

 * vote/discuss:

   * select the probable date for the monthly meetings

     2nd Tuesday of the month at 1900 UTC
     
   * discuss desired model of operation (15 min)

     After a review of some of the rules used by the previous council, the council
     members opted to keep some and review others:
     - instead of choosing the chair for the next meeting at the end of a meeting,
     interested volunteers will send an email to the mls manifesting their willingness
     and the council will setup a schedule for the whole year by rotating the task by
     them. Chairs will also serve as secretaries and summaries should be maintained
     during meetings by using a collaborative tool. 
     - the council will use bugs to track issues. A specific council member will be
     assigned to each bug to track it. The bugs progress will be reviewed on meetings.
     - the council members will discuss issues in the mls before the meetings so they
     can focus on voting during the meetings.
     - the council is open to have a 2nd montly meeting (possibly on the 4th Tuesday
     of the month) or impromptu meetings when required.
     Petteri recalled the council webapp and bot work is progressing so that should
     help with chairing the meetings.

   * allow council members to present issues to be addressed in this term
   
     No member opted to present any issues at this time.

   * Jorge requested during the meeting that the council election results be moved to
     the elections project space and be linked from the council space, instead of the
     current duplication. The council members agreed with the change and Jorge will
     ensure it is carried out.

   * Donnie asked for a clarification by the council members on whether they think a
     global dev vote is required to update GLEP39 or not. The council voted 5 yes and
     1 no that the council can't change GLEP39 as it requires a full developer vote.

   * The council voted 4 yes and 3 no that there's no requirement for another meeting
     this month to meet the requirements of GLEP39.

 * listen to the community to see if there are any issues it would like
   to see the council address in this term

   No issues were brought up to the council by the community.

 * Next meeting date

   Tuesday, 20110809 1900 UTC


The following items will be discussed in the mls before the next meeting:

 * council members will express their willingness to chair meetings
 * Donnie will create a schedule and distribute the chairing role on a rotation basis
   by the above list
 * required advance notice for council meetings
