Summary of Gentoo council meeting 8 November 2011

Roll call
=========
betelgeuse
chainsaw
calchan (proxy for dberkholz)
grobian
hwoarang
jmbsvicetto
ulm

ChangeLog and commit messages
=============================
Discuss/vote: Do we require identical ChangeLog entries and commit
messages?

The Council agreed that developers are free to use different messages
for ChangeLog and commit, but they are responsible for the messages,
and the Council still expects appropriate messages to be used.
<http://devmanual.gentoo.org/ebuild-writing/misc-files/changelog/>

Eclasses policy
===============
Discuss/vote: Are developers allowed to remove functions from
eclasses, or change the API in general?

The Council agreed that the following wording shall be added to the
eclass writing guide in the devmanual:
   "When removing a function or changing the API of an eclass, make
   sure that it doesn't break any ebuilds in the tree, and post a
   notice to gentoo-dev at least 30 days in advance, preferably with
   a patch included."

Actions:
- Provide a patch for the devmanual (betelgeuse).
- Start a discussion on the mailing lists on how to deal with eclass
  APIs in general (grobian).

Open bugs with Council involvement
==================================
Bug 331987: No progress since last month.
Action: Inform Infra about last month's Council decision (jmbsvicetto).

Bug 341959: No progress since last month.
Action: hwoarang will talk to tove and sort it out.

Open floor
==========
No issues were brought up to the council by the community.

Next meeting date
=================
13 December 2011, 20:00 UTC.
