Council meeting summary: 20110913


Agenda
------

 * Roll call (5 minutes; anyone later will be given a slacker mark)

 * Vote on whether to make Manifest signing mandatory (proposed by bonsaikitten)
 * Review open bugs with council involvement

 * Open floor - listen to the community


Meeting
-------

 * roll call

    here:

    Betelgeuse
    chainsaw
    dberkholz
    grobian
    hwoarang
    jmbsvicetto
    ulm


 * vote/discuss:

   * Vote on whether to make Manifest signing mandatory (proposed by bonsaikitten)

     The council didn't address this point in the meeting as there was no concrete proposal
     to be discussed / voted by the council. Some council members addressed this issue in the
     #gentoo-council channel with Patrick before the meeting.

   * Review open bugs with council involvement

     After an initial confusion about the number of open bugs, the council addressed the 9
     open bugs[1].

     [1] - https://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?cmdtype=dorem;remaction=run;namedcmd=council;sharer_id=42650;list_id=422625

     * bug 331987 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=331987

     The council agreed with infra's suggestion to do an SMTP level bounce for mails directed
     to the council ml. Tony will ask infra to provide the number of users affected, so the
     council can reply to the 2nd question on comment #9.

     * bug 341959 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=341959

     Council members agreed that this bug is fixed and decided Markos will ask Torsten if he's
     ok with the bug being closed.

     * bug 362803 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=362803

     Jorge acknowledged he forgot to update the xml file and will ask Torsten if he wants to
     take care of the bug or he'll take care of it.

     * bug 374931 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=374931

     Everyone agreed this bug should be closed as the council webapp is already running.
     Petteri will take care of this.
     To help test the council webapp, Markos will try to use it for the next meeting.

     * bug 234706 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=234706

     Tony argued that since this bug lost its champion and that the affected arches
     seem to be responsive again, the bug should be closed as OBSOLETE. The other
     members agreed.

     * bug 234711 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=234711

     The council members decided to close this bug as OBSOLETE since it depends on
     GLEP55 which was not accepted.

     * bug 237381 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=237381

     Donnie explained that he added a section to the council page following this
     request. Other members agreed that section was clear enough and that the bug
     should be closed as fixed.

     * bug 316401 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=316401

     The council considers this bug to be resolved from council side and Petteri
     will ask Christian about closing it.

     * bug 330361 - https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=330361

     Jorge addressed Fabian's question and explained that the current automatic
     builds are working correctly and that python2 is set as default on stage3.
     Jorge also explained that this bug is about not having python3 in the stages
     and that his and releng opinion about that was presented clearly in the bug.
     The council members agreed that council should not be involved on this bug
     and decided to reassign the bug to releng and defer to their decision.

   * Vote on a remaining issue from last meeting regarding echangelog generation

     Before the meeting started, Donnie suggested we used any remaining time to
     go over one issue that had remained from the previous meeting: should we
     require that autogenerated changelogs have a way to edit them afterwards to
     fix typos and such.
     After a discussion about whether the council could vote on this issue or not,
     there was a discussion about what was being voted on.
     Jorge argued that as he recalled this issue had been considered "obsolete"
     as the decisions in the previous meeting implied the existence of a file.
     Fabian argued that even though that was his understanding at the meeting, after
     rethinking about it, he thought it would be possible not to have a file. He
     also acknowledged that he believed the intention had been to have a file.
     In the end, given some open questions and nearing the end of the meeting, the
     council decided to move this discussion back to the mls - Markos will start
     a new thread, independent from the current git discussion, well before the
     next meeting.

 * listen to the community to see if there are any issues it would like
   to see the council address in this term

   No issues were brought up to the council by the community.

 * Next meeting date

   Tuesday, 20111011 1900 UTC
