Council 2011/04/08 meeting summary
==================================


Agenda
------

 * roll call

 * project Canterbury[2]
 * Gentoo's restructure
 * progress on the slacking arches topic

 * open bugs with council involvement
 * next meeting date / chair
 * open floor - listen to the community

 [1] http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/utctolocal.html?time=2000
 [2] http://www.gentoo.org/


Meeting
-------

 * roll call

    here:

    Betelgeuse
    bonsaikitten
    ferringb
    jmbsvicetto
    scarabeus
    wired
    chainsaw (late)


 * items for discussion / vote

    * project Canterbury
    * Gentoo's restructure

    These two topics were added for April's Fool day. There was enough said about them, so we'll leave
	them for next year.

    * Council web app

    Petteri asked for this topic to be added to the meeting right before it start as a student submitted
	an application for GSoC for doing a council application[1].
    As Petteri presented it, the application would provide at least the following 3 features: 1) doodle
	like feature or doodle integration for setting times 2) irc bot for automatic log handling (integrate
	with some existing software) 3) handling agendas. Other members noted that if it could also deal with
	voting, that would be great.
    There was some discussion about technical details but the council decided to focus on whether the
	project was desired and leave the discussion about details for later.
    The council members didn't object to the idea and are open to see what will come out of that project.
	Petteri will mentor the student for the project and Brian will watch over it.

    [1] - http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/proposal/review/google/gsoc2011/jbartosik/1

    * progress on the slacking arches topic

    Jorge explained to the other council members that he had planned to start a new round of emails at the
	start of the week, but work got in the way.
    He informed the other members that he will send 3 or 4 emails during this weekend about "hiring people"
	(to address the lack of people), "automated testing", "statistics" and a revised email about "arch
	resources".
    Alex volunteered to send the email about "automated testing" and manifested his interest to participate
	in this discussion.

    * open bugs with council involvement

    bug 234706 - "slacker arches"
    The council agreed on adding a note that it's working on this issue

    bug 234711 - "GLEP 54"
    The council agreed on adding a note that it has decided to use "live" as the suffix instead of "scm" if
	this GLEP ever goes forward and to leave the bug open.

    bug 237381 - "Document appeals process"
    Jorge promised to finally take care of this bug.

    bug 237381
    bug 331987
    Both bugs are on infra side so there's nothing for the council to do about them

    bug 341959
    Tomas noted that devmanual needs some updates and Alex volunteered to take care of this bug.

    bug 344479
    Jorge will take care of this bug.


 * Next meeting chair

    Tomas


 * Next meeting date

    Tuesday, 20110510 1900 UTC


 * Open floor - listen to the community

	No issue was brought forward to the council.
