Council 2011/03/08 meeting summary
==================================

Roll Call
---------
	betelgeuse
	patrick (dropped after first 30 mins due to connection issues, no mark)
	chainsaw (proxied by a3li)
	ferringb
	jmbsvicetto
	scarabeus (proxied for first 5 minutes by ssuominen)
	wired

Agenda
------

* Preferring latest EAPI in ebuilds
This change should encourage developers to migrate their ebuilds to latest EAPI
version rather than sticking to old EAPIs.
Devmanual EAPI section will be updated so the new text reads:
"When writing new ebuilds developers can choose whathever EAPI they think is the
best. Using the features of the latest EAPI is encouraged."
- Accepted by 6 ack votes (patrick, did not vote).

* slacking arches
The ongoing discussion with arch teams has already provided some good feedback.
As we now have a better knowledge of the issues affecting arch teams, some of
the points raised will be moved to the -project ml to expose them to a wider
audience and to try to find solutions from the community.
Common issues identified so far are developer burnout and lack of hardware.
Jorge (jmbsvicetto) is now coordinating between foundation /infra /arch teams
to see if we can define some hardware specs and get the required resources.

* GLEP 48 (QA)
After a long discussion and a review of the final proposal text, the result is
the following:
- vote:
	in favor: scarabeus, ferringb, wired, jmbsvicetto
	didn't state (abstain): betelgeuse, patrick, a3li
Given the result, the GLEP update is accepted and can proceed, albeit Peteri
raised a question how Devrel is going to work out the resolution after the process
is handled over from QA. It was agreed that the part of the text (last sentence of
the diff) will be updated with string based on what those two teams agree with
without more council involvment (unless required otherwise).

* open bugs with council involvement
Only relevant bug is https://bugs.gentoo.org/344479.
Brian (ferringb) is going to look to it and resolve it (given the fact the bug
is about him so he should do it :))

* next meeting date / chair
Date to be decided on mail, Alex (wired) will send an e-mail about it.
Chair will be Jorge (jmbsvicetto)

* open floor - listen to the community
They were really really quiet. Nobody wanted icecream.
