Council meeting summary: 20110809 


Meeting agenda:

 * Roll call (5 minutes; anyone later will be given a slacker mark)
   - All present!
     (dberkholz, hwoarang, betelgeuse, jmbsvicetto, ulm, grobian, chainsaw)

 * Required advance notice for council meetings (10 minutes)
   - Vote: 7 days vs 2 days
     - Result: 1-week notice is required
   - If 7 days notice is required:
     Vote: can the agenda be sent with only 2-day notice?
     - Result: draft agendas should also be sent 1 week in advance

 * ChangeLog autogeneration [2] (20 minutes)
   - Previous council already voted for autogeneration (20110608)
   - Vote: Should we allow filtering of which commits show up?
     - No filtering, on a 4-3 vote
   - Vote: Retroactively change existing entries, yes or no.
     - We will append to changelogs and retain all existing changelog 
       messages.
     - We may need to return to this when the git migration is ready. 
       Current changelog messages will be old by then, so they won't be 
       as interesting anymore, and people should have adjusted.
   - Do we need a way to edit autogenerated changelogs to fix typos, 
     etc? Should there be a backing store to overwrite messages? 
     jmbsvicetto will reopen discussion about this.
 
 * IRC cloaks: gentoo/user/cloaks [3] (5 minutes)
   - Vote: Should we delegate this to devrel and userrel to work out?
   - Summary: No decision was reached. Opinions were mixed on whether 
     council should be involved, whether it fell under devrel or 
     whether Freenode group contacts were even connected to devrel.
     Further discussion on lists might help clarify how things should work.

 * Use of gentoo-council mailing list [4] (5 minutes)
   - Vote: Should the -council mailing list again be used for discussion 
     of council agenda items?
     - No. -dev, -project, and the council alias is enough
     - Update the -council list bug to indicate that the list should be closed.

 * Chair rotation (5 minutes)
   - Schedule at http://dev.gentoo.org/~dberkholz/meeting_chairs.txt
   - People can feel free to trade
   - If multiple meetings occur in a month, that month's chair will run them.
   - Donnie will add it to a table on the council webpage
 
 * open bugs with council involvement
 * open floor - listen to the community

Next meeting: Tuesday 20110913 1900 UTC


Items proposed but not on the agenda:

 * Optional runtime dependencies [5]
   - What is the decision to be made? If none, it's not on the agenda

 * Council terms: overlapping 2-year terms [6]
   - Requires a full developer vote on changes to GLEP 39 so council 
     approval is not relevant


If you have anything you'd like to push to the council for
discussion, feel free to reply to this thread.

 [1] http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/utctolocal.html?time=1900
 [2] http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_3675d8a397ee2b5b3088df42e3352b6f.xml
 [3] http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_5471f2db793e7fe9f50038fb23258c66.xml
 [4] http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-council/msg_6cad9409772fa44415e84005ff922145.xml
 [5] http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-dev/msg_2342bd1cad57e432a319c55e3ef7e6df.xml
 [6] http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_f0e61e95ea9027d7c937e5ae956adb0d.xml
