Council 2011/02/01 meeting summary
==================================


Agenda
------

* roll call

* slacking arches
* EAPI-4 use in the tree
* GLEP 48 (QA)

* open bugs with council involvement
* next meeting date / chair
* open floor - listen to the community


Meeting
-------

* roll call

    here:

        Betelgeuse
        bonsaikitten
        chainsaw
        ferringb
        jmbsvicetto
        scarabeus
        wired


* items for discussion / vote

    slacker arches

        After a brief discussion about the ml thread, Jorge raised a few concerns
        about the proposed policy increasing arch teams work and not addressing
        the issue of lacking hardware.
        It was decided that Tomas will write a proposal based on the ml thread
        and that Jorge will try to talk to the arch teams and trustees to see
        if there is or not a hardware issue and if so will try to address it.


    EAPI-4

        The council already approved and published the use of EAPI-4 for testing
        ebuilds in the tree - mail sent by Alex.
        While mentioning this point, Tomas recalled his question about changing
        policy to have developers use the latest EAPI whenever possible, which
        lead to a long discussion about deprecating EAPI versions and upgrade
        paths, to be continued in the MLs.


    GLEP48

        There was a very long discussion about "authority" and "powers" and whether
        QA should or not have be able to suspend developer's commit privileges.
        No consensus was reached and as proposed in the agenda, the GLEP was sent
        back to be updated with current requests and for further discussion on MLs.


    Bugs assigned/cc'd to the council were pushed to the next meeting



* Next meeting chair

    Tomas

* Next meeting date

    Tuesday, 20110301 2000 UTC


* Open floor - listen to the community

    No issue was brought forward to the council
