Council 2012/05/08 meeting summary
==================================


Agenda
------

 * Introduction and roll call (5 minutes)
 * EAPI specification in ebuilds [2] (20 minutes)

   1. Vote on final PMS wording [3] (discussion [4])
   2. Vote to change the status of GLEP55 [5]

 * Separate /usr partition vote of last meeting (20 minutes)

   Following the vote about Gentoo supporting separate /usr
   installations in the last meeting, the mls became active
   about the meaning and consequences of such vote.
   William made a direct request to the council to review the
   vote [6].

 * Review of the council term (10 minutes)

   Roy suggested [7] the council members do a review of their
   mandate in the last meeting before the election.

 * Open floor

 [1] - http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/utctolocal.html?time=1900
 [2] -
http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_e6eafd6be25794ca503e0ac9d6968cd3.xml
 [3] -
http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-pms/msg_3a441be5e49cc06689ecab00da461278.xml
 [4] -
http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-pms/msg_ef7635aa655913f2386e64e385f5a6ae.xml
 [5] - http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0055.html
 [6] -
http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_5a3e7a62abc3f6f529cbb18d85f2fbcf.xml
 [7] -
http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_0e09e374488d2393c6cf794e349dc614.xml


Meeting
-------

 * roll call

    here:

    Betelgeuse (late)
    chainsaw
    dberkholz
    grobian
    hwoarang
    jmbsvicetto
    ulm

 * vote/discuss:

   * EAPI specification in ebuilds

     * Vote on final PMS wording

       The council approved with 6 yes votes the final PMS wording as submitted on
       http://archives.gentoo.org/gentoo-project/msg_e6eafd6be25794ca503e0ac9d6968cd3.xml

     * Vote to change the status of GLEP55

       The council approved with 6 yes votes to change the status of GLEP55 to rejected.
       Per Ulrich's suggestion, the GLEP status heading will be changed to "the council
       rejected this GLEP in its 2012-05-08 meeting in favor of parsing the EAPI from
       the first non-blank and non-comment line of ebuilds.


    * Separate /usr partition vote of last meeting

      Following the discussions in the dev and project threads about the last meeting
      vote on the separate /usr partition as well as the thread on this meeting's agenda,
      the council members agreed that as Tony stated "sufficient understanding & agreement
      has been built on the mailing lists".


    * Review of the council term

      As suggested by Roy, the council members did a review of this council term.
      Tony remarked he feels this council did particularly well on attendance. Fabian
      collected his thoughts on http://dev.gentoo.org/~grobian/achievements-council-1112.txt
      Donnie suggests having fewer rotating chairs and have them do a few meetings in
      a row to improve efficiency. Jorge also noted that picking chairs in advance
      does help getting meetings prepared. Several members argued be prepared is very
      important. Petteri noted council members should be proactive and Jorge noted how
      work got a toll on his time for council duties.
      Donnie was bothered by the "red tape" and the amount of time council spent on issues
      that weren't really up to it. He also maintains the believe that innovations should
      be pushed by individuals and that the council should do everything to quickly get out
      of the way.
   

    * Open bugs with council involvement

      * bug 383467

        Jorge noted this bug was his and that the council voting results are already available
        at the elections page http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/elections/council/ . He also promised
        to complete the conversion of the 2005 nominees file, fix the master ballot for last year
        election as noted by Ulrich, to drop http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/#doc_chap9
        and link back to the elections page.

      * bug 411069

        Ulrich argued the council shouldn't be CC'ed on this bug and as other council members
        agreed this isn't a council issue, the council has been removed from CC of this bug.


 * next meeting:

   Tuesday, 20120612 1900 UTC


 * open floor:

   No issues were brought to the council attention.
