--- Log opened Tue Feb 14 20:03:35 2012
20:03 -!- mode/#gentoo-council [+v dberkholz] by ChanServ
20:03 -!- Irssi: Join to #gentoo-council was synced in 1 secs
20:03 <jmbsvicett@> Chainsaw: I have Donnie's number on the other laptop :\
20:03 <  Chainsaw@> Good evening dberkholz.
20:03 < dberkholz+> hi guys, sorry.
20:03 <jmbsvicett@> anyone has access to email? He sent a phone number for FOSDEM
20:03 <   grobian@> ah, good
20:04 <   grobian@> jmbsvicetto: not necessary any more ;)
20:04 < dberkholz+> i totally suck. got all distracted w/ fosdem stuff
20:04 <jmbsvicett@> Hi Donnie
20:04 <Betelgeuse@> jmbsvicetto: There is no requirement to decide anything so we are fine for that rule.
20:04 < dberkholz+> i think the only question was the poland friends site, right?
20:05 <jmbsvicett@> Betelgeuse: I think we already have 4, otherwise we would hit that rule. Last time it happened was 2 or 3 years ago
20:05 <   grobian@> dberkholz: do you have an agenda at hand?
20:05 <     _AxS_ > jmbsvicetto: umm..  regarding that rule, technically couldn't you just decide that (without quarum) you guys not have the meeting until later? :)
20:05 <jmbsvicett@> Betelgeuse: the point of that rule is to ensure no meeting is hold without quorum
20:06 <jmbsvicett@> _AxS_: last time that happened the rule was applied
20:06 <jmbsvicett@> _AxS_: but in an case, we do have a quorum
20:06 < dberkholz+> grobian: well, the only item was regarding the gentoo poland group and name/logo use, which is clearly a trustees question imho
20:06 < dberkholz+> grobian: so there isn't any agenda for the meeting
20:06 <jmbsvicett@> Betelgeuse, Chainsaw, dberkholz, grobian, hwoarang and jmbsvicetto are around.
20:06 <   grobian@> dberkholz: we have a discussion here that the agenda wasn't sent a week in advance, like we decided in our first meeting
20:07 < dberkholz+> how can you send a nonexistent agenda?
20:07 < dberkholz+> there was nothing to discuss
20:07 <   grobian@> dberkholz: like I did
20:07  * Chainsaw confirms his presence
20:07 <   grobian@> dberkholz: but we think we can get away with it, because it's empty
20:07 <  Chainsaw@> (On time & unprompted, for the record!)
20:07 < dberkholz+> Chainsaw: yeah, i took your spot on that one
20:07 <   grobian@> Chainsaw: woohoo :)
20:08 <   grobian@> ulm: around?
20:08 <       ulm@> yes
20:08 <jmbsvicett@> so, dberkholz do you want to open the meeting? ;)
20:08 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: we just need to do a head count an open the floor
20:08 <jmbsvicett@> and*
20:09 <   grobian@> jmbsvicetto: I guess the open actions haven't changed, right?
20:09 < dberkholz+> where's hwoarang?
20:09 <jmbsvicett@> grobian: not mine :-\
20:09 <  hwoarang@> i am here
20:09 < dberkholz+> ok, that's everyone
20:09 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: for the record, I suggest we open the meeting do a roll call and then open the floor
20:10 <   grobian@> ack
20:10 <jmbsvicett@> so you can list that in the log
20:10 < dberkholz+> everyone on the council has spoken now, but if you insist on formal process, i guess that's fine
20:11 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: I'd say it's best to be safe than sorry ;)
20:11 < dberkholz+> so, council folks, say you're here again.
20:11 <jmbsvicett@> here
20:11 <   grobian@> here
20:11 <  Chainsaw@> Present.
20:11 < dberkholz+> Betelgeuse, hwoarang, ulm: say hi again
20:11 <  hwoarang@> hi
20:11 <       ulm@> here
20:11 <Betelgeuse@> hi
20:12 < dberkholz+> i feel much safer now, don't you? =P
20:12 <Betelgeuse@> no
20:12 <jmbsvicett@> x
20:12 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: it's a "warm" feeling :P
20:12 < dberkholz+> jmbsvicetto: any progress on bug 383467?
20:13 < willikins > dberkholz: https://bugs.gentoo.org/383467 "Council webpage lacks results for 2010 and 2011 elections"; Website www.gentoo.org, Projects; CONF; hwoarang:jmbsvicetto
20:13 <jmbsvicett@> so, are we ok with this meeting or do you want us to hold another meeting this month?
20:13 <jmbsvicett@> I think we're ok and don't see a need for a new meeting
20:13 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: no, sorry
20:13 < dberkholz+> that's the only open bug i see
20:13 <  Chainsaw@> jmbsvicetto: I'm glad we agree on that. Then the next meeting can be in March.
20:13 <   grobian@> I think we're ok if we stick to roll-call + open floor
20:13 <Betelgeuse@> I would call for agenda items. If there are then hold a meeting.
20:14 < dberkholz+> grobian sent out a call on feb 2...
20:14 <Betelgeuse@> We could also just hold our March meeting early March
20:14 < dberkholz+> if people didn't reply to that, they apparently had no issues
20:14 <Betelgeuse@> dberkholz: true
20:14 < dberkholz+> btw, thank you for that grobian, much appreciated
20:14 <Betelgeuse@> So I guess we are fine as people forgetting to attend is not a big problem.
20:14 <   grobian@> dberkholz: yw
20:15 < dberkholz+> got caught up in a big morass with the fosdem trip, getting my phone stolen, etc.
20:15 < dberkholz+> so, let's open the floor up, and if there's nothing, we'll wrap up in a couple minutes
20:15 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: I can't find any other bug as well
20:16 <  Chainsaw@> Good evening Zorry.
20:16 <     Zorry > hi Chainsaw
20:16 <jmbsvicett@> I caught up with emails today and the only issue I saw was mentioned, besides the Gentoo Poland Group, was the issue about enabling PIE on all setuid files and that was "refused" by grobian as it was still premature to send to council
20:16 <   grobian@> ok, so can we get back to the "meeting"?
20:17 <   grobian@> can we agree on an empty agenda?
20:17 <  Chainsaw@> Agreed.
20:17 <jmbsvicett@> yes
20:17 <Betelgeuse@> yes
20:17 <       ulm@> yes
20:17 < dberkholz+> right. so consider the floor open
20:17 <  Chainsaw@> Zorry: Was there anything you wanted to raise?
20:18 <     Zorry > nope just looking in
20:18 <   grobian@> as a note: I send the call for agenda items, but expect the chair to decide what to put on the agenda and send the agenda around 1 week in advance
20:18 <   grobian@> in case this was unclear
20:18 < dberkholz+> and as another friendly note, i'd recommend to the rest of you that you put 1- and 2-week reminders on your calendars, unlike me
20:19 < dberkholz+> for the meetings you're chairing
20:19 <   grobian@> is it perhaps better to let the chair send the call as well?
20:19 <  Chainsaw@> Yes, I use the company CRM these days. It helps.
20:21 < dberkholz+> ok, it's been 3 minutes. last chance to raise an issue
20:21 <jmbsvicett@> grobian: if you don't mind sending the intial email, I appreciate it
20:21 <   grobian@> I happily do so
20:21 <Betelgeuse@> grobian: could include the chair in the email
20:22 <Betelgeuse@> grobian: maybe then he will notice to do something :)
20:22 <   grobian@> Betelgeuse: ah, YOU for next month :)
20:22 <jmbsvicett@> :)
20:22 <   grobian@> good suggestion, I'll try to do that
20:22 < dberkholz+> we just need to build this stuff into the council webapp
20:22 <   grobian@> next meeting = 13th march?
20:22 <  Chainsaw@> That works for me, thank you.
20:23 <Betelgeuse@> dberkholz: Now that I am chairing we could take it for a spin
20:23 <jmbsvicett@> grobian: yes
20:23 <   grobian@> ok, I got it down in my agenda now :)
20:23 < dberkholz+> alright, we're done for today. next meeting is 2000 utc on march 13. Betelgeuse will chair.
20:23 <jmbsvicett@> dberkholz: ok, thanks
20:23 <   grobian@> thanks dberkholz
20:24 <jmbsvicett@> I need to leave now. See you all later
20:24 < dberkholz+> thanks for coping with my slackerness
20:24 <Betelgeuse@> thanks
20:24 <       ulm@> thanks
20:24 < dberkholz+> btw, if any of you are interested in my gsoc mentoring talk from fosdem, it's online now â€” http://monk.ly/yjCfiA
20:24 <   grobian@> thanks, I saw it live though :)
20:25 < dberkholz+> watch it so that if a bus hits me, we're still ok =)
20:25 <Betelgeuse@> dberkholz: btw did GSoC get announced in FOSDEM? Maybe I wasn't following exactly when it happened.
20:27 < dberkholz+> Betelgeuse: yep
20:27 <   grobian@> ok, later all
