Summary of Gentoo council meeting 24 September 2013

Agenda
======
1. Introduction and roll call
2. Drop support for separate /usr partition [1] - williamh
3. Open bugs with council involvement


Roll call
=========
Present:
   blueness
   dberkholz
   creffett (proxy for dilfridge)
   rich0
   scarabeus
   ulm
   williamh

Drop support for separate /usr partition
========================================
Following the decision in the 20130813 meeting, williamh asked the
council to agree that the preparations for early boot mechanisms are
complete and that the necessary documentation is in place. In the
following discussion it was noted that documentation for NFS mounted
/usr was still missing (bug 481660). According to williamh, this
should just work, without any need for separate documentation. Some
council members expressed their concern that separate /usr support
shouldn't be removed proactively. The overall opinion on this was that
the base-system team should be trusted to do the right thing. It was
agreed that a news item should be sent, followed by a reasonable
transition time for users.

Vote:
- "The Council agrees that all preparations for dropping support for
  separate /usr without an initramfs or similar boot mechanism are
  complete. A news item will be prepared, and users will be given one
  month to switch after the news item has been sent."
  Accepted with 5 yes votes, 1 no vote, 1 abstention.

Action:
- Prepare the news item (williamh).

Open bugs with council involvement
==================================
- Bug 481202 "Tracker - Documentation or implementation issues for
  dropping of separate /usr support" [2]
  No action, but leave the bug open as a tracker.

- Bug 477030 "Missing summary for 20130611 council meeting" [3]
  No progress since last meeting.

- Bug 457000 "Missing log and summary for previous council
  meetings" [4]
  Action: Add log and summary for the 20080515 meeting (ulm).

- Bug 480408 "Add /releases/${arch}/verified tree for tested
  autobuilds" [5]
  Already discussed in August meeting, council can be removed from CC.

- Bug 485448 "Migrate council project page to the wiki" [6]
  Migration to the wiki was welcomed by council members. It was noted
  by dberkholz that the wiki in general could profit from a better
  skin. Also the list of meeting logs should be folded by default, or
  moved to a subpage.
  Action: Complete the migration, redirect old project pages (ulm).

Next meeting date
=================
8 October 2013, 19:00 UTC


[1] http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/2946
[2] https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=481202
[3] https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=477030
[4] https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=457000
[5] https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=480408
[6] https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=485448
