Summary of the Gentoo Council meeting 12 November 2013



Agenda
======

1. Introduction and roll call

2. Status of the QA team
   * Proposal to disband the QA team and call for new team members [1]
   * Proposal to add Patrick Lauer to the QA team [2]

3. Request for a minimal policy for pgp keys and key handling (for 
   commit signing) [3]

4. Removing last keyworded package version for a minor arch [4]

5. Metastructure: Dead projects [5]

6. Metastructure: Reorganization of the project tree [6]

7. Modernization/adaption of the Code of Conduct, the return [7]

8. Revival of archives.gentoo.org

9. Open bugs with council involvement
   * Bug 477030 - Missing summary for 20130611 council meeting [8]

10. Open floor


[1] http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3116/focus=3129
[2] <20131029165206.1430a2be@shanghai.paradoxon.rec>
    http://dev.gentoo.org/~dilfridge/mail-3.txt
[3] <527053EF.9080200@gentoo.org>
    http://dev.gentoo.org/~dilfridge/mail-4.txt
[4] http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3110
[5] <201310292251.02052.dilfridge@gentoo.org>
    http://dev.gentoo.org/~dilfridge/mail-6.txt
[6] <201310292255.04913.dilfridge@gentoo.org>
[7] http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/meeting-logs/20131008.txt
[8] https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=477030



Roll call
=========

Present:
   blueness, dberkholz, dilfridge, rich0, scarabeus, ulm, williamh



Status of the QA team
=====================

After a lengthy discussion, the following proposal was put up for
vote:

"The current QA team is dissolved (but not its subprojects). The 
Council announces on the gentoo-dev-announce mailing list that 
interested developers should send council@gentoo.org a mail in the 
next two weeks if they want to join the QA team. The Council takes on 
the role of the QA team lead for six weeks, with elections in the 
team afterwards. The Council accepts interested developers into the 
team with secret majority vote of the council members."

This motion was passed with 4 yes and 3 abstentions.

This makes the proposal to add Patrick Lauer to the QA team obsolete 
since he can now follow the process outlined above.

In addition, it was discussed whether GLEP48 should be amended 
such that the QA team elect its team lead, but the Council has to 
confirm that election. A decision on this was postponed to the next 
regular Council meeting; a draft of the GLEP48 change should be
prepared and sent to the gentoo-project mailing list for discussion.



===

Afterwards the meeting was adjourned; the Council will reconvene in a 
week as per a separate announcement. 

