Summary for the February 12 Gentoo council meeting 2013


Roll Call
=========
betelgeuse
Chainsaw
dberkholz
grobian
scarabeus
ulm
WilliamH


Open bug(s) with council involvement
====================================
For bug #383467 to be closed, the master ballots for 2011 & 2012 will
need to be uploaded & linked.

ulm reports that all should be done by now, jmbsvicetto has uploaded all
files.  The bug will be closed.


Any other business from council members
=======================================
grobian:
- forcing/pressing gpg usage with repoman FEATURES=sign in anticipation for
  git migration where gpg signing will be mandatory
  * send mail to -dev-announce what/why and how to do it, keylength and
    more of that
    action: WiliamH, draft + send the message
- change of GLEP 39 only to allow devs to be council members
  * discussion on whether such restriction is necessary, grobian noted that
    foundation is legally responsible for council, hence nice to have those be
    developers.  betelgeuse noted that the GLEP is written to imply council
    members to be devs.  ulm pointed out non-dev proxies have been a problem
    in the past (20090625 meeting).
    betelgeuse suggested to effectuate this in the next council election.
    Calchan aired his intentions to replace the Council completely which lead
    to a discussion on when he will present those ideas.


Open floor
==========
no issues were raised


Next meeting is March 12 2013 20:00 UTC
