Summary of Gentoo council meeting 11 March 2014


Agenda
======
1. Roll call
2. Open issues - vote on GLEP 63
3. Ban on EAPI 1 and 2 should extend to updating EAPI in existing ebuilds
4. Make all cosmetic repoman warnings fatal
5. Adherence to FHS standards in Gentoo: putting config files int /etc
6. Bugs assigned to Council
7. Open floor


1. Roll call
=========

Present: blueness dberkholz dilfridge rich0 ulm williamh
Absent: scarabeus


2. Open issues - vote on GLEP 63
================================

Previous council action approved in principle the policies outlined in
"GLEP 63: Gentoo GPG key policies" [1], but delayed the vote for approval
until the final language was put in place.  dilfridge presented a shorter
version of the GLEP which removed the "howto" language and reduced it to
just policy [2].  Discussion progressed to a consensus that we should have
only policy in the GLEP and a practical guide should be a separate document
which can be changed without council vote.

We tabled the vote until either an email vote (initiated by dilfridge) or
the next meeting.

Ref:
[1] https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/GLEP:63
[2] https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/User:Dilfridge/GLEP:1001a


3. Ban on EAPI 1 and 2 should extend to updating EAPI in existing ebuilds
=========================================================================

The concil considered the question of whether the ban on EAPIs 1 and 2 should
extended to updating EAPIs in *existing* ebuilds, and not just new ebuilds added
to the tree [3]. mgorny noted that we need bumps from EAPI 0 to 1 because we need
an easy way to introduce slotting without the major rewrining of ebuild phases
than an EAPI 0 to 3 bump would require.  After discussion, the council voted on
the following motion:

"EAPI 1 and 2 are now banned.  This ban should not only be limited to new ebuilds,
but should be extended to include updating EAPIs in *existing* ebuilds.  In case
of non-maintainer commits to fix dependencies, EAPI=0 ebuilds may be updated to
EAPI=1 to keep the changes at a non-intrusive level, as a temporary workaround."

The motion carried with 4 yes, 1 no and 1 abstention.

Ref:
[3] http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3382


4. Make all cosmetic repoman warnings fatal
===========================================

The council considered the question of whether all repoman warnings should be
made fatal [4].  Concensus was reached that this would lead to too many false
positives.

The motion failed with 4 no and 1 abstention.

Ref:
[4] http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3358


5. Adherence to FHS standards in Gentoo: putting config files int /etc
======================================================================

The question of where config files should go was raised by patrick [5,6,7].  The
council discussed whether it should be policy to put all config files in /etc.
However, what defines a config file is unclear because some packages, like udev or
eudev, put their *default* config files in /lib/udev/rules.d which are overridden
by the files in /etc/udev/rules.d.  The former are not meant to be user-edited while
the later are.  The council is okay with static config files living outside of /etc
while user-editable config files should be in /etc.

rich0 introduced the following motion:

"Council does not feel additional policy required regarding config files in /etc.
In particular packages that place config templates in /usr or /lib* and allow overriding
in /etc are fine. Specific issues not already discussed can be raised in future meetings."

The motion passed with 4 yes and 1 abstention.

Ref:
[5] http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3357
[6] http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3367
[7] http://devmanual.gentoo.org/general-concepts/filesystem/index.html


6. Bugs assigned to Council
===========================

The council looked at two open bugs:

a) Bug #503382 - Missing summaries for 20131210, 20140114, and 20140225 council meetings

dberkholtz said he would upload those summaries soon.

b) Bug #477030 - Missing summary for 20130611 council meeting

There has been no progress.  scarabeus was to nudge betelgeuse for that summry.


7. Open floor
=============

No issues were brought forward.


Summary submitted by Anthony G. Basile <blueness@gentoo.org>
