Roll call
=========

Present: blueness, dberkholz, dilfridge, creffet proxy for radhermit, rich0, ulm, williamh 
Absent: none


Validity of Unattached Tinderbox Logs
=====================================
Should/may maintainers close bugs that have tinderbox logs passed by URL
without being attached?

http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/93356/focus=93435

"The council recommends that bugs from any developer-run tinderbox not
be marked invalid based on whether the logs are attached or pointed to
by a permanent URL.  The council also encourages efforts to automate
the attachment of tinderbox logs to improve the quality of the bugzilla
record."

Aye: blueness, dberkholz, dilfridge, creffet proxy for radhermit, rich0, ulm, williamh 


Future.eclass
=============
Please review the attached future.eclass. Long story short, the idea is
to provide some of the EAPI 6 feel to EAPI 5 ebuilds.

Quoting the beginning of the DESCRIPTION:

# This eclass contains backports of functions that were accepted
# by the Council for the EAPI following the EAPI used by ebuild,
# and can be implemented in pure shell script.

http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.devel/93609

"The council does not agree with the concept behind future.eclass as it
has the potential for confusion.  Efforts would be better focused on
preparing for EAPI6 and adopting this."

Aye: blueness, dilfridge, creffet proxy for radhermit, rich0, ulm, williamh 
Abstain: dberkholz


Allowing die within subshells in EAPI6
======================================
This was suggested late, off-list, and with no list discussion.  I
recommend deferring any decisions, but if anybody wants to take the
opportunity to comment they may.

See the log for discussion.  This was referred back to the lists for open 
discussion before we vote.


Deprecating and killing the concept of herds
============================================
Follow-up if necessary...

Rich0 will work on his proposal further.  There isn't anything ripe for a 
decision yet.

Status of Games Team
====================
Follow-up if necessary...

The council agreed to re-iterate the call for volunteers and for QA to
take action where necessary.  However, there are no new decisions.


Bugs assigned to Council
========================

(5 minutes)

Bug #503382 - Missing summaries for 20131210, 20140114, and 20140225 council meetings

dberkholz reports that he is 2/3rds done with this.


Open floor
==========

(5 minutes)

See log for discussion around EAPI6 and install-qa-check.d.


