Roll call
=========


Present: blueness, creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0, williamh 
Absent: 


The future of einstall
======================
"Einstall will be removed from EAPI6."
aye: creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, radhermit, rich0, williamh


GLEP 64
=======
"We approve GLEP64 as documented at
https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/User:Blueness/GLEP64 with API versioning
added."


aye: blueness, dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0
abstain: creffett (proxy for ulm), williamh


Git Migration Issues
====================
"do we need to continue to create new ChangeLog entries once we're operating in git?"

No: blueness, creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0, williamh

"The yyyy/ prefix can be dropped from gentoo-news, timing to be
determined by those implementing the change."

Aye: blueness, creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0, williamh 

Can we drop CVS headers post-migration?

Aye: blueness, creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0, williamh 

"The git migration should produce a separate historical and current
repository, which can be spliced using git replace, but which are
otherwise not connected."

Aye: blueness, creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0, williamh 

"we don't see any big remaining obstacles and advise infra / the git
migration project to proceed at their pace"

Aye: blueness, creffett (proxy for ulm), dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, rich0, williamh 

(Meeting was called due to time, with remaining items to be covered following week.)