<blueness> time!                                                        [20:58]
<rich0> I can hardly wait!                                              [20:59]
<blueness> Fri Jul 25 19:00:26 UTC 2014
<ulm> who wants the chair?                                              [21:00]
<ulm> otherwise, I can do it, since I've sent the announcement
<rich0> I'd like to nominate blueness, dberkholz, dilfridge, radhermit, ulm,
        and WilliamH for the chair.
<radhermit> you chairing sounds fine to me
<blueness> where's the agenda?                                          [21:01]
<ulm> http://article.gmane.org/gmane.linux.gentoo.project/3912
<ulm> in the topic too
*** dberkholz|mob (~dberkholz@gentoo/developer/dberkholz) has joined channel
    #gentoo-council
*** ChanServ (ChanServ@services.) has changed mode for #gentoo-council to +o
    dberkholz|mob
<ulm> nobody?                                                           [21:02]
* ulm takes it then
<helium-3> Oh yeah
<helium-3> Here
<ulm> roll call
<dberkholz|mob> Hi
* rich0 is here
<radhermit> I'm here
<ulm> WilliamH?
<blueness> here                                                         [21:03]
<ulm> does anyone have williamh's phone number?
<blueness> nope sorry                                                   [21:04]
<blueness> i probably should get it because i'm in the US
<creffett|irssi> ulm: rich0 has it, if memory serves
<rich0> hang on                                                         [21:05]
<blueness> brb in 2 minutes, i must run to the washroom
<rich0> we actually exchanged numbers last term.  Probably a good idea to
        repeat that
<rich0> I sent him a text                                               [21:06]
<ulm> rich0: thanks
<ulm> anyway, let's start
<ulm> Vote for holding meetings every 2nd Tuesday of the month at 1900 UTC
<ulm> anyone wants to discuss this?
* WilliamH is here                                                      [21:07]
<WilliamH> sorry folks
<rich0> I'm fine with that time as-is.
<ulm> good, we're complete then
<ulm> so let's vote
* WilliamH is fine with that time
<ulm> motion is "hold meetings every 2nd Tuesday of the month at 19:00 UTC"
* ulm yes                                                               [21:08]
* radhermit yes
* WilliamH yes
* dilfridge yes
<dberkholz|mob> Yes
<dilfridge> now really here, was still running home with a big bag from
            McDo...
<blueness> yes
* rich0 yes
<ulm> unanimous
<ulm> next topic                                                        [21:09]
<ulm> continue last council's workflow
<ulm> i.e. call for agenda 2 weeks in advance
<ulm> agenda 1 week in advance
<ulm> discussions in -project ML prior to meeting
<blueness> i thought that worked very well                              [21:10]
* WilliamH agrees
* dilfridge agrees
<radhermit> sounds fine
<dberkholz|mob> wfm
* ulm agrees too
<rich0> fine here
<blueness> yes
<ulm> k
<ulm> I take this as unanimous                                          [21:11]
<radhermit> as the token new guy, where are agenda items tracked? informally
            on the lists?
<ulm> it used to be on the lists
<ulm> and then of course collected in the agenda that is sent out
<blueness> radhermit, i would create a text file which i put them up and then
           mention to people to look there to make sure i was correclty
           representing stuff
<radhermit> got it, thanks                                              [21:12]
<blueness> then i would mail it out
<ulm> next topic?
<ulm> appoint chairs for this council's term
<ulm> we used to do two or three in a row                               [21:13]
<blueness> i'd like to do jun and july if possible
* dilfridge volunteers dec jan feb
* ulm volunteers for august and september
<rich0> I can do oct nov
<ulm> blueness: there won't be july 2015 I think                        [21:14]
<blueness> okay then i'll do august or may
* radhermit can do march/apr
<blueness> i'd like to do them when i'm not teaching
<rich0> I'm flexible in any case - just give me whatever two months that are
        open :)
<ulm> so we have
<rich0> Those with preferences can get them first
<ulm> august: ulm / blueness
<ulm> september: ulm                                                    [21:15]
<ulm> oct: rich0
<ulm> nov: rich0
<ulm> dec: dilfridge
<ulm> jan: dilfridge
<ulm> feb: dilfridge
<dberkholz|mob> June? Looks open
<ulm> mar: radhermit
<ulm> apr: radhermit
<ulm> may: blueness                                                     [21:16]
<ulm> june?
<dberkholz|mob> Let blueness grab it too
<ulm> blueness: can you take may and june?
<blueness> i orginally suggeseted jun
<blueness> ulm, yes may and jun is fin
<blueness> so its july we don't have a meeting?
<ulm> blueness: I take august?                                          [21:17]
<blueness> because of elections?
<ulm> blueness: july 2015 would be next term I think
<ulm> as it is for today
<WilliamH> Yes
<blueness> ah okay
<ulm> anything else for this topic?                                     [21:18]
<ulm> next: open bugs
<dilfridge> heh                                                         [21:19]
<blueness> are there any?
<ulm> bug 424647
<willikins> ulm: https://bugs.gentoo.org/424647 "archives.gentoo.org: Broken
            URLs for e.g. gentoo-dev-announce and others"; Gentoo
            Infrastructure, Other; CONF; darkside:infra-bugs
<ulm> not much we can do there
<ulm> anyone wants to comment on this one?                              [21:20]
<ulm> seems not
<ulm> bug 477030
<willikins> https://bugs.gentoo.org/477030 "Missing summary for 20130611
            council meeting"; Doc Other, Project-specific documentation; CONF;
            ulm:council
<ulm> also no progress there                                            [21:21]
<ulm> bug 503382
<willikins> https://bugs.gentoo.org/503382 "Missing summaries for 20131210,
            20140114, and 20140225 council meetings"; Doc Other,
            Project-specific documentation; CONF; ulm:council
* dberkholz|mob coughs
<ulm> dberkholz: this one is for you :/
<ulm> any ETA?
<dberkholz|mob> I have 2 done, need to read through the irc log for the third
                                                                        [21:22]
<dberkholz|mob> Got 3 weeks vacation in August so probably then
<ulm> can you commit the two that are finished?
<dberkholz|mob> Sure                                                    [21:23]
<ulm> k
<ulm> any bugs that I've missed?
<ulm> next: open floor to council members                               [21:24]
<blueness> one point
<blueness> we should have a file where we keep our phone numbers
<blueness> in secret somewhere
<ulm> would a secret bug do?
<blueness> i'm afraid i'm pretty busy this year and may need a "gentle"
           reminder
<WilliamH> blueness: I think we have to keep those individually...
<blueness> ulm, yes perfect                                             [21:25]
<blueness> WilliamH, you think?
<WilliamH> Hmm, a bug might work... but can we restrict it to council members
           only?
<dilfridge> file, gpg-enc better
<WilliamH> dilfridge: probably so.
<WilliamH> Really though I think it should be up to us individually to keep
           something like that...                                       [21:26]
<ulm> dilfridge: can you take care of the file?
<dilfridge> yes
<ulm> good
<blueness> WilliamH, even an encrypted email to all of us
<blueness> then i can program them into my phone
<blueness> i just know we're going to need to call one another occasioally
                                                                        [21:27]
<ulm> any other items you want to raise?
<ulm> or introduce yourself?                                            [21:28]
<blueness> blueness = Anthony Basile = buffalo NY USA
<blueness> prof by day, gentoo dev by night
<WilliamH> I'm William Hubbs, and I"m in Irving TX. Mostly I'm a gentoo dev
           these days.                                                  [21:29]
<WilliamH> I am the primary maintainer for OpenRC, and a member of base-system
           and accessibility.                                           [21:30]
<WilliamH> and the accessibility lead.
<dilfridge> dilfridge = helium-3 = Andreas Hüttel, Regensburg, Germany  [21:31]
<dilfridge> physics researcher by day and night, gentoo dev in between :)
<dilfridge> kde (not so much anymore), perl, office, printing, various things
<rich0> rich0 = Rich Freeman, Souderton PA (just outside Phladelphia)   [21:32]
<rich0> When not posting excessively on the lists I'm a Business Analyst by
        day, and maintain misc packages by night
<ulm> ulm = Ulrich Müller, Mainz, Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany         [21:33]
<ulm> physicist working at a university
<ulm> maintaining Emacs packages and eselect. Member of QA, PMS, and licenses
      teams.
<radhermit> radhermit = Tim Harder -> moving near Boston MA USA soonish to
            work on embedded hardware and Linux support for ADI
<blueness> i <3 embedded                                                [21:34]
<radhermit> maintain too much stuff and recently poking at
            pkgcore/snakeoil/etc
<blueness> three physicists ... my ph.d. is in physics
<rich0> Does passing p-chem count?                                      [21:35]
<dberkholz|mob> I did biophysics. Which is like physics but not at all
<dberkholz|mob> Now I do research about trends in tech.                 [21:36]
<ulm> are we done with this topic?                                      [21:37]
<dilfridge> yeth, I think
<ulm> open floor to community
<blueness> rich0, dberkholz sorry, we are purists!                      [21:38]
<dilfridge> :)
<ulm> hehe
<blueness> dilfridge, is closest with He-3
<dberkholz|mob> Have you seen that xkcd
<blueness> i feel a xkcd comic coming on
<blueness> lol!
<blueness> yes i was just thinking about that!                          [21:39]
<dilfridge> http://xkcd.com/435/
<blueness> yep                                                          [21:40]
<blueness> ulm, what sort of physics do you do?
<ulm> blueness: hadron and nuclear physics
<blueness> experimental or theory?
* radhermit was/is a math guy, just didn't want a job in that area :P
<ulm> experimental                                                      [21:41]
<blueness> radhermit, don't math people just wind up coding?
<radhermit> lots of them
<dberkholz|mob> Looks like we're good on the meeting. Happy to keep chatting
                but why don't we close
<ulm> yeah, I don't see any open floor topics from the community        [21:42]
<ulm> next meeting will be August 12th
<ulm> and I'll chair again
<ulm> this meeting is closed
*** ulm (~ulm@gentoo/developer/ulm) has set the topic for #gentoo-council:
    "Next meeting: Tuesday, 12 Aug 2014 19:00 UTC |
    http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/utctolocal.html?time=19:00 |
    http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Council"                        [21:43]
