(04/11/2009 02:00:37 PM) ***NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel to start the foundation AGM
(04/11/2009 02:01:02 PM) ***jmbsvicetto takes a back row seat
(04/11/2009 02:01:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 1 Introduction of New Trustees
(04/11/2009 02:01:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: I would like to introduce quantumsummers and robbat2 as our two new 
(04/11/2009 02:01:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: trustees and take this opportunity to thank dmwaters for repreasing her 
(04/11/2009 02:01:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: trustees role.
(04/11/2009 02:02:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: I would also like to thank the other candiates for standing in this election
(04/11/2009 02:02:31 PM) armin76: tsunam: had, not anymore
(04/11/2009 02:02:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: At this time, I would like to porpose a vote of thanks to dmwaters_  ... 
(04/11/2009 02:03:07 PM) tsunam: seconded
(04/11/2009 02:03:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: Vote please
(04/11/2009 02:03:18 PM) robbat2|na: aye
(04/11/2009 02:03:18 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(04/11/2009 02:03:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: aye
(04/11/2009 02:03:20 PM) tsunam: aye
(04/11/2009 02:03:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: aye
(04/11/2009 02:03:24 PM) robbat2|na is now known as robbat2
(04/11/2009 02:03:28 PM) NeddySeagoon: carried
(04/11/2009 02:03:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, would you care to say a few words ?
(04/11/2009 02:04:00 PM) robbat2: certainly
(04/11/2009 02:04:18 PM) robbat2: firstly, thanks to the electorate for their confidence in me. 
(04/11/2009 02:04:29 PM) robbat2: i hope I can live up to it with my plans
(04/11/2009 02:04:44 PM) robbat2: which will be commencing in may after I return from my travels
(04/11/2009 02:05:01 PM) robbat2: thats all for now
(04/11/2009 02:05:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, you are no stranger to this channel care to say a few words about your extra workload ?
(04/11/2009 02:06:02 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: It would be a pleasure, thank you.
(04/11/2009 02:06:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: Not too many :)
(04/11/2009 02:06:52 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I simply wish to extend my gratitude to the Board for the privilege of serving as Secretary these past few months
(04/11/2009 02:06:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: And
(04/11/2009 02:07:32 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I wish to offer my thanks to the electorate for giving me the great honor of serving as a board member
(04/11/2009 02:08:14 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: My hope is to grow gentoo and make it stronger than ever.
(04/11/2009 02:08:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Please, wish the trustees luck in this endeavor.
(04/11/2009 02:08:49 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Thanks.
(04/11/2009 02:09:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thank you robbat2 and quantumsummers 
(04/11/2009 02:09:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 3  Officers Reports 
(04/11/2009 02:09:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: First the Presidents' Report http://xrl.us/ben64s
(04/11/2009 02:10:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: We will have a few minutes for reading and I will take questions as they arise
(04/11/2009 02:12:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: Any questions ?
(04/11/2009 02:12:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: I propose the report is accepted as written
(04/11/2009 02:12:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Very nice report NeddySeagoon, no questions from me, thank you.
(04/11/2009 02:13:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I second
(04/11/2009 02:13:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thank you.
(04/11/2009 02:13:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: Vote please
(04/11/2009 02:13:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Votes?
(04/11/2009 02:13:23 PM) robbat2: aye, no questions here
(04/11/2009 02:13:23 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: aye
(04/11/2009 02:13:27 PM) tsunam: aye
(04/11/2009 02:14:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: thank you
(04/11/2009 02:14:29 PM) jmbsvicetto: NeddySeagoon: very good report
(04/11/2009 02:14:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, Secretarys' Report ... care to paste a link please
(04/11/2009 02:14:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: http://dev.gentoo.org/~quantumsummers/secretarys_report_2009.html
(04/11/2009 02:14:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, thank you
(04/11/2009 02:15:10 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Questions and/or comments are welcome.
(04/11/2009 02:15:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: Same format ... reading time, questions and vote
(04/11/2009 02:15:52 PM) robbat2: quantumsummers, approximately how many (former) members were dropped due to being unable to reach them using the last emails on file?
(04/11/2009 02:16:50 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair looks
(04/11/2009 02:18:39 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers: From the 75 non-devs, 73 are ex-dev, correct?
(04/11/2009 02:18:52 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: there were 2 resignations, Four were dropped.
(04/11/2009 02:19:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, nobody was dropped from membership this election.  members have to skip two consecutive elections to be dropped
(04/11/2009 02:19:43 PM) jmbsvicetto: NeddySeagoon: That is not part of the adopted bylaws
(04/11/2009 02:19:52 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: jmbsvicetto: as of the recording date for the election yes. However, since that date we now have 5 non-dev members
(04/11/2009 02:20:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, I expect that we will lose a lot of 'dead wood' after the next election.
(04/11/2009 02:20:05 PM) robbat2: to clarify, I mean dropped in the sense of we have no way to contact them
(04/11/2009 02:20:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: robbat2: that is what I meant, 4
(04/11/2009 02:20:23 PM) jmbsvicetto: NeddySeagoon: The trustees may decided to terminate membership for lack of participation, but that particular rule was dropped from the approved bylaws
(04/11/2009 02:20:40 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers: That's good to hear :)
(04/11/2009 02:20:46 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: they were due to bounces with no other email on file
(04/11/2009 02:20:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, the bylaws state 'as determied from time to time' and recently, thats what was determined.  Its in the meeting logs this year
(04/11/2009 02:21:10 PM) robbat2: thanks. I just found that interesting to compare against the historical totals of devs (685) and the current number of devs (243)
(04/11/2009 02:21:35 PM) robbat2: no further questions from me
(04/11/2009 02:21:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: robbat2: I think that is interesting as well, perhaps we should collab on this a bit to gather some stats
(04/11/2009 02:21:49 PM) jmbsvicetto: NeddySeagoon: oh, the election officials were looking for that but missed it. We'll add a note about it to our procedureus
(04/11/2009 02:22:28 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, do you want to add the Q&A to your report or should I propose it as clarified here ?
(04/11/2009 02:22:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: jmbsvicetto: its a standard operating procedure. These will be published when the nfp-web-app is available.
(04/11/2009 02:22:47 PM) jmbsvicetto: robbat2: I think between 2006 and 2008 no dev joined the Foundation - that means some people from 2005 onwards, never joined the foundation
(04/11/2009 02:22:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, I'll find it for you after the meeting
(04/11/2009 02:23:07 PM) robbat2: jmbsvicetto, we'll review later, thanks
(04/11/2009 02:23:08 PM) jmbsvicetto: thanks
(04/11/2009 02:23:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, do you want to add the Q&A to your report or should I propose it as clarified here ?
(04/11/2009 02:23:35 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: I have no preference, I can add that in no problem
(04/11/2009 02:23:42 PM) tsunam: I would suggest ammending it to the report
(04/11/2009 02:23:52 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: very well, I will amend the report
(04/11/2009 02:24:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, OK, add it to the report please
(04/11/2009 02:24:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: I propose that the secrataries report is approved with the changes discussed above
(04/11/2009 02:24:42 PM) fmccor: second
(04/11/2009 02:24:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: Vote
(04/11/2009 02:24:51 PM) tsunam: aye
(04/11/2009 02:24:54 PM) robbat2: aye
(04/11/2009 02:24:54 PM) fmccor: aye
(04/11/2009 02:24:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: aye
(04/11/2009 02:24:56 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair abstains 
(04/11/2009 02:25:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: Carried
(04/11/2009 02:25:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: The follow up will be at next months meeting
(04/11/2009 02:25:49 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will have the changes made before the end of this meeting
(04/11/2009 02:26:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, The treasurers report please
(04/11/2009 02:26:03 PM) tsunam: http://dev.gentoo.org/~tsunam/Treasures_report.html
(04/11/2009 02:26:32 PM) tsunam: Note: this covers the first 3 quarters of the fiscal year as our fiscal year is not over yet
(04/11/2009 02:27:18 PM) robbat2: no questions from me
(04/11/2009 02:27:55 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam: Do you have an estimate regarding the funds outstanding, i.e. checks that Grant has?
(04/11/2009 02:28:32 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers: Outside of the netbank account. it is approximately 2k USD from cafepress for the store
(04/11/2009 02:28:50 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam: what is the amount on the Netbank?
(04/11/2009 02:29:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: also, we need the GSoC $$ from last year, now that we have a bank. :)\
(04/11/2009 02:29:22 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers: I would have to review the transfers from paypal to come up with an exact value, and even then I'm not entirely positive that is accurate
(04/11/2009 02:29:28 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers: correct
(04/11/2009 02:29:58 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Perhaps also note that we do not need to file taxes this year due to making <$25K
(04/11/2009 02:30:02 PM) tsunam: I would prefer to contact ING and discuss it with them to find the actual proper ammount without guessing
(04/11/2009 02:30:10 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam: understood
(04/11/2009 02:30:25 PM) robbat2: when I was reviewing the financial reports previously, i'd estimate it at exceeding $10k.
(04/11/2009 02:30:34 PM) tsunam: robbat2: I would concur 
(04/11/2009 02:30:34 PM) robbat2: by how much, i am uncertain
(04/11/2009 02:30:46 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I would estimate >$20K
(04/11/2009 02:31:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: lets not guess in public.  tsunam can you ask grant for the value on the face of the cheque ?
(04/11/2009 02:31:26 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers: I don't believe it is that much, but once I contact ING and find out what we have to do to retrieve that money I will provide a report about the value
(04/11/2009 02:31:49 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: I will contact grant again concerning the checks again
(04/11/2009 02:31:54 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam: indeed, thanks
(04/11/2009 02:32:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, ok ... care to give a date for contacting ING ?
(04/11/2009 02:32:20 PM) tsunam: I hope to be able to begin talks this month
(04/11/2009 02:32:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok ... a topic for next months meeting then
(04/11/2009 02:32:44 PM) tsunam: with the actual Capital one bank, it should prove easier to cordinate with ING for that
(04/11/2009 02:32:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: yep
(04/11/2009 02:33:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, as we seem to be updating reports, will you take the Q&A into your report pleasse
(04/11/2009 02:33:33 PM) tsunam: will do
(04/11/2009 02:34:14 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thin I propose the treaurers report is accepted after the amendments discussed above
(04/11/2009 02:34:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: seconded
(04/11/2009 02:34:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: then*
(04/11/2009 02:34:23 PM) robbat2: aye
(04/11/2009 02:34:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: Vote
(04/11/2009 02:34:26 PM) fmccor: aye
(04/11/2009 02:34:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: aye
(04/11/2009 02:34:28 PM) NeddySeagoon: aye
(04/11/2009 02:34:30 PM) tsunam: abstain
(04/11/2009 02:34:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: Carried
(04/11/2009 02:34:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: 4 Membership Applications ... we have none to consuder
(04/11/2009 02:35:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: 5 Any other business ...
(04/11/2009 02:35:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2,  ?
(04/11/2009 02:35:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, ?
(04/11/2009 02:35:56 PM) robbat2: nothing i'm ready to raise. it's on hold with me until I'm done with my travels this month (away april 17-29)
(04/11/2009 02:36:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, you could post it to trustees@ to give us a heads up
(04/11/2009 02:36:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor,  ?
(04/11/2009 02:36:35 PM) fmccor: I should mention two items which are ongoing.
(04/11/2009 02:37:06 PM) robbat2: NeddySeagoon, i'll do so
(04/11/2009 02:37:20 PM) fmccor: First, we have an application from a group in Kazakhstan for them to be our sales outlet there.
(04/11/2009 02:37:55 PM) fmccor: In principle, this is fine, and we are just waiting for a Russian speaker to review their site (at the advice of our lawyer).
(04/11/2009 02:38:15 PM) fmccor: I believe this is underway, but I'll follow up this week.
(04/11/2009 02:39:30 PM) fmccor: Second, Gentoo e.V. still holds our trademark in the EU.  I have not heard what they want to do, but I think after reading what everyone has said and thinking about it, that is probably better for us than the alternative (taking it over).
(04/11/2009 02:39:53 PM) fmccor: That all depends on Gentoo e.V., of course.
(04/11/2009 02:40:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: Their meeting is overdue
(04/11/2009 02:40:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dertobi123: any comments on the above?
(04/11/2009 02:40:21 PM) fmccor: Yes, but it is out of our control.
(04/11/2009 02:40:36 PM) dertobi123: quantumsummers: not really, besides we're still slacking on that
(04/11/2009 02:40:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, I understand
(04/11/2009 02:41:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dertobi123: is there any consensus from anyone regarding the future of Gentoo e.V.?
(04/11/2009 02:41:40 PM) dertobi123: quantumsummers: somewhat yes, somewhat no
(04/11/2009 02:42:06 PM) dertobi123: somehow people want to keep the Gentoo e.V., but when it comes to actively working on that ...
(04/11/2009 02:42:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dertobi123: perhaps the trustees here can assist in some way, would you & your comrades be amenable to a discussion?
(04/11/2009 02:43:11 PM) dertobi123: i am, i can try to get others for that discussion, too
(04/11/2009 02:43:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dertobi123: I think that could be very productive
(04/11/2009 02:44:19 PM) dertobi123: agreed
(04/11/2009 02:44:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, would you care to propose a date/time/venue for a joint meeting ? 
(04/11/2009 02:44:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: it seems good to maintain Gentoo e.V., but perhaps fold the work of maintenance into the existing Gentoo Foundation.
(04/11/2009 02:45:02 PM) fmccor: ?
(04/11/2009 02:45:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, thats what the meeting needs to decide
(04/11/2009 02:45:13 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes
(04/11/2009 02:45:29 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: i can mail our members, suggest some dates on weekends in may and we can agree on a date which works for both of us best then
(04/11/2009 02:45:47 PM) dertobi123: quantumsummers: in my personal opinion i have to agree on that
(04/11/2009 02:45:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, sounds like a plan.
(04/11/2009 02:45:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: robbat2: this might be a good time to use that scheduling tool
(04/11/2009 02:46:09 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: robbat2: care to set up a link?
(04/11/2009 02:46:10 PM) dertobi123: hrm
(04/11/2009 02:46:13 PM) dertobi123: yeah
(04/11/2009 02:46:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, AoB from you ?
(04/11/2009 02:46:35 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: what is AoB?
(04/11/2009 02:46:47 PM) NeddySeagoon: Any Other Business
(04/11/2009 02:47:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: oh, heh. 
(04/11/2009 02:47:16 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Not that I can think of atm.
(04/11/2009 02:47:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have one item.
(04/11/2009 02:47:42 PM) robbat2: quantumsummers, http://www.scheduleonce.com/Timezone-tool.aspx <--- go and start there, best if the person organizing does it. so that they get the right link to see it
(04/11/2009 02:48:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: Date of next meeting. I propose 17 May at 19:00 UTC, being the Sunday after the council meeting  
(04/11/2009 02:48:43 PM) fmccor: Should work for me.
(04/11/2009 02:48:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Oh, I will propose a meetings calander on trustess@ too
(04/11/2009 02:49:13 PM) tsunam: I will be traveling in may/june possibly (no dates yet) for work. Original date would be during the week of the 17th but that is not looking likely
(04/11/2009 02:49:19 PM) tsunam: so that should work for me
(04/11/2009 02:49:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, robbat2 quantumsummers ^^
(04/11/2009 02:49:32 PM) robbat2: may 17th is fine for me
(04/11/2009 02:49:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: yes, that is good
(04/11/2009 02:49:47 PM) tsunam: I'll keep everyone advised if that date shouldn't work for me
(04/11/2009 02:49:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agreed than.
(04/11/2009 02:50:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 6 Open floor
(04/11/2009 02:50:23 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dertobi123: will you CC trustees@g.o on the email you send please 
(04/11/2009 02:51:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, I would rather see a translation ... my German is zero
(04/11/2009 02:51:36 PM) tanderson: During the election my irc nick was expected for my vote(tanderson). That's not my gentoo account though. Could someone fix that on the trustees list?
(04/11/2009 02:52:22 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: might make some more sense, yeah 
(04/11/2009 02:52:26 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: same, perhaps we can tap someone from the German conspiracy to assist with translation
(04/11/2009 02:52:33 PM) tsunam: hehe, I'll be fine. I can read german
(04/11/2009 02:52:37 PM) tsunam: fairly well
(04/11/2009 02:52:42 PM) ***fmccor can read German
(04/11/2009 02:52:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, you mean like dertobi123  :)
(04/11/2009 02:53:00 PM) dertobi123: seids ihr da sicher, jungs?
(04/11/2009 02:53:01 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yepper do
(04/11/2009 02:53:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: achtung baby?
(04/11/2009 02:53:21 PM) fmccor: Ja, so bin ich.
(04/11/2009 02:53:28 PM) tsunam: hehe
(04/11/2009 02:53:35 PM) dertobi123: fmccor: -so ;)
(04/11/2009 02:53:36 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: jawol
(04/11/2009 02:53:37 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers: he asked if you were sure
(04/11/2009 02:53:44 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ja
(04/11/2009 02:53:48 PM) dertobi123: heh
(04/11/2009 02:54:02 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: all my german I learned from the game enemy territory
(04/11/2009 02:54:28 PM) tsunam: note: don't have quantumsummers be a translator for german, unless we want to go to war
(04/11/2009 02:54:28 PM) dertobi123: only thing i remember from enemy territory is "need a medic"
(04/11/2009 02:54:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, well, mine is from reading wine bottles 
(04/11/2009 02:54:44 PM) tsunam: think it might be time to call the meeting to an end though
(04/11/2009 02:54:46 PM) robbat2: besser als mein Deutsch
(04/11/2009 02:54:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agreed.
(04/11/2009 02:54:57 PM) tanderson: During the election my irc nick was expected for my vote(tanderson). That's not my gentoo account though. Could someone fix that on the trustees list?
(04/11/2009 02:55:03 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: dertobi123: lol, that is all my wife thinks about when I play fps ... need a medic over & over again
(04/11/2009 02:55:03 PM) ***NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
