(01/11/2009 01:00:57 PM) ***NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order 
(01/11/2009 01:01:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, 
(01/11/2009 01:01:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, can you call tsunam please
(01/11/2009 01:01:53 PM) fmccor: Yes
(01/11/2009 01:01:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks
(01/11/2009 01:03:08 PM) fmccor: On his way
(01/11/2009 01:03:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: ta
(01/11/2009 01:04:00 PM) fmccor: He forgot it was Sunday. :)
(01/11/2009 01:04:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: It must be the beer :)
(01/11/2009 01:04:28 PM) quantumsummers|c: what day did he think it was?
(01/11/2009 01:04:29 PM) fmccor: :)
(01/11/2009 01:04:41 PM) fmccor: That he didn't say.
(01/11/2009 01:05:14 PM) tsunam: some day other then sunday :-P
(01/11/2009 01:05:29 PM) quantumsummers|c: hi tsunam!
(01/11/2009 01:05:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: Welcome tsunam 
(01/11/2009 01:05:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: Now we are quorate, we can start.  Item 2 
(01/11/2009 01:05:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: Actions From the Last Meeting
(01/11/2009 01:05:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: Gentoo Foundation Banking - tsunam
(01/11/2009 01:06:28 PM) tsunam: I contacted the irs again, to get the proper ident form sent to me. I've yet to recieve it so that the bank account can be completed
(01/11/2009 01:07:06 PM) NeddySeagoon: next .. Certified Public Accountant - quantumsummers
(01/11/2009 01:07:55 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok, so we need as complete a financial history as possible
(01/11/2009 01:07:59 PM) tsunam: yep
(01/11/2009 01:08:01 PM) tsunam: working on it
(01/11/2009 01:08:04 PM) quantumsummers|c: thanks
(01/11/2009 01:08:25 PM) quantumsummers|c: we can start with the recent stuff first so we can get the taxes taken care of for 08
(01/11/2009 01:08:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, care to give us a completion date ?
(01/11/2009 01:08:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, when do we have to file for '08 ?
(01/11/2009 01:09:19 PM) quantumsummers|c: also, I have received some comments from entities interested in seeing gentoo with 501c3 status with the irs
(01/11/2009 01:09:32 PM) quantumsummers|c: also willing to assist with the cost on that
(01/11/2009 01:09:56 PM) quantumsummers|c: would be a really good idea to get that going & set up this year, it takes about 9 monthys
(01/11/2009 01:09:59 PM) quantumsummers|c: *months
(01/11/2009 01:09:59 PM) tsunam: hmm, they've even further restricted the log history downloading due to lack of bank account =|
(01/11/2009 01:10:14 PM) quantumsummers|c: who, paypal?
(01/11/2009 01:10:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, can you share those on the alias please, it may not be approprate to air it in public yet
(01/11/2009 01:10:27 PM) quantumsummers|c: sure can
(01/11/2009 01:10:47 PM) quantumsummers|c: it would help gentoo foundation  grow to have 501c3
(01/11/2009 01:10:51 PM) fmccor: Is there any way at all to get the IRS to move on this?  It's just a piece of paper and everyone has all the information.
(01/11/2009 01:11:19 PM) fmccor: (I mean form for the bank account.  Not having one restricts us.)
(01/11/2009 01:11:23 PM) tsunam: fmccor: wish there was but I don't think there is
(01/11/2009 01:11:47 PM) fmccor: Do they say what the hold-up is?
(01/11/2009 01:12:13 PM) fmccor: They must say something when we ask.
(01/11/2009 01:12:17 PM) tsunam: I requested the form and they said they would send it
(01/11/2009 01:12:26 PM) quantumsummers|c: can they fax the form?
(01/11/2009 01:13:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, just need to nag, so the get fed up with calls/emails
(01/11/2009 01:14:10 PM) quantumsummers|c: to continue with the cpa topic, it might be helpful to have tsunam on a conference call with the cpa sometime before the end of the month
(01/11/2009 01:14:14 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers|c: no they can't
(01/11/2009 01:14:31 PM) quantumsummers|c: would you be able to be on a call tsunam?
(01/11/2009 01:14:36 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers|c: sure
(01/11/2009 01:14:40 PM) quantumsummers|c: I can arrange it of course
(01/11/2009 01:14:55 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok, I will email around the info
(01/11/2009 01:15:22 PM) quantumsummers|c: might just be easier to have you ( tsunam) explain the situation to her
(01/11/2009 01:15:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: That sounds good - there could be some progress even before the IRS puts the paperwork in the post
(01/11/2009 01:15:23 PM) fmccor: Maybe your CPA has a magic way in to the IRS. :)
(01/11/2009 01:15:28 PM) quantumsummers|c: perhaps
(01/11/2009 01:15:41 PM) quantumsummers|c: she is rahter nice-no-nonsense
(01/11/2009 01:15:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: What is the deadline for us to make our filing for 2008 ?
(01/11/2009 01:15:46 PM) quantumsummers|c: *rather
(01/11/2009 01:16:02 PM) quantumsummers|c: april 15 I think, unless we file for an extension
(01/11/2009 01:16:06 PM) tsunam: *nods*
(01/11/2009 01:16:08 PM) quantumsummers|c: which is 6 months
(01/11/2009 01:16:11 PM) tsunam: its same as personal
(01/11/2009 01:16:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: hehe ... here its 31 Jan
(01/11/2009 01:16:25 PM) fmccor: Er, 4 months
(01/11/2009 01:16:27 PM) quantumsummers|c: the extension must be postmarked april 15
(01/11/2009 01:16:38 PM) quantumsummers|c: the extension is 6 months
(01/11/2009 01:16:53 PM) fmccor: OH.  I misread
(01/11/2009 01:17:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: we should make that but we don't want to go right to the wire
(01/11/2009 01:17:01 PM) quantumsummers|c: I wasn't clear
(01/11/2009 01:17:21 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes, I am trying to get everything together by Feb 1
(01/11/2009 01:17:35 PM) quantumsummers|c: this CPA does my stuff too
(01/11/2009 01:17:55 PM) quantumsummers|c: btwn my wife & I we have 4 companies
(01/11/2009 01:18:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: we need our financials up to date this month then ?
(01/11/2009 01:18:16 PM) quantumsummers|c: well, as much as possible
(01/11/2009 01:18:35 PM) quantumsummers|c: she has said that she can assist us with getting things in order
(01/11/2009 01:19:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, do you have all the information you need from PayPal ?
(01/11/2009 01:19:06 PM) quantumsummers|c: like I said,  if we can get all of 2008 in, that will be a really good start
(01/11/2009 01:19:31 PM) quantumsummers|c: long term is to have entire financial history'
(01/11/2009 01:19:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, we need that for ourselves
(01/11/2009 01:19:54 PM) quantumsummers|c: of course
(01/11/2009 01:19:56 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: from paypal for?
(01/11/2009 01:20:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, to construct our income history 
(01/11/2009 01:20:30 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: yeah I can, but its become much more of a pain in the arse
(01/11/2009 01:20:50 PM) quantumsummers|c: I & the cpa can help tsunam
(01/11/2009 01:21:00 PM) quantumsummers|c: err, the CPA & I
(01/11/2009 01:21:20 PM) ***quantumsummers|c kicks grammar police inside his head
(01/11/2009 01:21:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, it may be a topic for discussion with the CPA, perhaps they have some leverage
(01/11/2009 01:21:35 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: with paypal? doubtful
(01/11/2009 01:21:54 PM) quantumsummers|c: they have people whose job is to call the irs
(01/11/2009 01:21:57 PM) tsunam: I'll see if I can contact them to get a full history download sent to me though
(01/11/2009 01:22:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, if you need some help sorting out the mess, once you have the data, I'll help
(01/11/2009 01:22:53 PM) tsunam: NeddySeagoon: I have the data...can't get it into a format that makes it easy for others to help with
(01/11/2009 01:23:02 PM) quantumsummers|c: what is the format?
(01/11/2009 01:23:05 PM) tsunam: because its stuck in paypal's account history only
(01/11/2009 01:23:10 PM) tsunam: which I can't download now
(01/11/2009 01:23:14 PM) quantumsummers|c: html or something?
(01/11/2009 01:23:14 PM) tsunam: since they've restricted it further
(01/11/2009 01:23:38 PM) tsunam: I've just really grown to hate paypal honestly :(
(01/11/2009 01:23:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, email me the file(s) let me have a look
(01/11/2009 01:23:53 PM) quantumsummers|c: cc me too please
(01/11/2009 01:24:10 PM) tsunam: I'm looking at the html
(01/11/2009 01:24:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, you should have my public key
(01/11/2009 01:24:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok ... lets move on
(01/11/2009 01:24:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: Fix name and address on IPR/trademark documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees - fmccor
(01/11/2009 01:25:00 PM) fmccor: I believe we're waiting on the PTO (patent & trademark office)
(01/11/2009 01:25:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, is it worth poking them ?
(01/11/2009 01:25:21 PM) fmccor: Lawyer is supposed to have that in motion and will bill us when it's done.
(01/11/2009 01:25:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: next ..
(01/11/2009 01:25:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: Send friendly cease and desist emails to copyright infringers spotted on cafepress - quantumsummers
(01/11/2009 01:25:49 PM) fmccor: No, all I could do is poke the lawyer.
(01/11/2009 01:26:03 PM) ***quantumsummers|c tattoos this on his eyelids so he sees it every time he blinks.
(01/11/2009 01:26:04 PM) fragalot is now known as fragalot`
(01/11/2009 01:26:06 PM) fmccor: PTO is no faster than IRS. :)
(01/11/2009 01:26:13 PM) quantumsummers|c: prob slower
(01/11/2009 01:26:15 PM) fragalot` is now known as fragalot
(01/11/2009 01:26:42 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, I believe she estimated about 6 months --- I can go back and look...
(01/11/2009 01:26:43 PM) tsunam: lol
(01/11/2009 01:27:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: lol I'll move this to actions waiting then ... you can surprise us one day
(01/11/2009 01:27:20 PM) quantumsummers|c: I have added the recent infringing entities revealed in emails to trustees to the list
(01/11/2009 01:27:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, thanks
(01/11/2009 01:27:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 2 Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees
(01/11/2009 01:28:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: 217511 The Gentoo Store is Out of Date - musikc
(01/11/2009 01:28:02 PM) quantumsummers|c: before this gets going
(01/11/2009 01:28:08 PM) quantumsummers|c: sorry
(01/11/2009 01:28:14 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, I'll check status in a month if we haven't heard by then.
(01/11/2009 01:28:46 PM) quantumsummers|c: I was wondering if I should add the trustees to the CC on this Bug 254249
(01/11/2009 01:28:48 PM) Willikins: quantumsummers|c: https://bugs.gentoo.org/254249 "Tracking a conversation & doc regarding website redesign"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; quantumsummers@g.o:pr@g.o
(01/11/2009 01:29:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: musikc added some things but we need a long term maintainer, thats why this action is still open 
(01/11/2009 01:29:26 PM) quantumsummers|c: comprookie2000 has expressed some interest in helping with the store
(01/11/2009 01:29:48 PM) quantumsummers|c: via email to trustees@
(01/11/2009 01:30:10 PM) quantumsummers|c: might be nice to give musikc some extra help
(01/11/2009 01:30:23 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, He's here ---- comprookie2000 ^^^^^
(01/11/2009 01:30:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: yep ... pass the info to musikc.  She can discuss with comprookie2000 directly
(01/11/2009 01:30:58 PM) quantumsummers|c: very well
(01/11/2009 01:32:17 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers|c: you should have a mail from me, re: financials I have had in csv format
(01/11/2009 01:32:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, on your bug, AllenJB posted a test site ... I'm not sure if its mentioned there.  There is a forums thread about it
(01/11/2009 01:32:34 PM) quantumsummers|c: excellent tsunam, thanks
(01/11/2009 01:33:11 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers|c: let me know if you can't unencrypt the file though
(01/11/2009 01:33:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c by all means add trustees@ as a cc, we do have an interest after all
(01/11/2009 01:33:37 PM) quantumsummers|c: NeddySeagoon: roger that good buddy
(01/11/2009 01:34:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: next bug ... 224689 Request for Reimbusement for legal fees to lawyer
(01/11/2009 01:34:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: can that be closed ?
(01/11/2009 01:34:13 PM) fmccor: Isn't this done?
(01/11/2009 01:34:35 PM) tsunam: *looks*
(01/11/2009 01:34:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, it seems he didn't bill us for some work
(01/11/2009 01:34:55 PM) tsunam: no no sadly not :( I can't send more then 500 bucks a month..so
(01/11/2009 01:35:06 PM) fmccor: No, he billed us for everything.  He didn't bill us for fixing a mistake he made.
(01/11/2009 01:35:23 PM) NeddySeagoon: so it stays open ?
(01/11/2009 01:35:30 PM) tsunam: so in otherwords, I've not paid myself back yet
(01/11/2009 01:35:35 PM) tsunam: so yes it needs to stay open
(01/11/2009 01:35:44 PM) tsunam: again issues with paypal limited access :(
(01/11/2009 01:35:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, pay yourself in two installments then
(01/11/2009 01:36:14 PM) quantumsummers|c: we have __got__ to get a bank account
(01/11/2009 01:36:28 PM) fmccor: ++ that
(01/11/2009 01:36:30 PM) antarus: er, we don't have a bank account yet? :)
(01/11/2009 01:36:33 PM) tsunam: I could do that, If I reacall I have to add a credit card etc to associate my address with myself which isn't a big deal for me
(01/11/2009 01:36:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, its something to think about
(01/11/2009 01:37:12 PM) tsunam: antarus: nope...not yet sadly.. irs fun dealing with for getting our EIN form...if we didnt "lose" that we'd of had it long ago
(01/11/2009 01:37:22 PM) quantumsummers|c: antarus: the irs is slowing things down, so if you know someone ...
(01/11/2009 01:37:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: 234705 Document of being an active developer ... council moved this to us
(01/11/2009 01:37:44 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, Eventually we might open a personal account reserved for gentoo use or something.  These banks + IRS are truly ridiculous.
(01/11/2009 01:37:45 PM) quantumsummers|c: have google call the irs for us
(01/11/2009 01:38:13 PM) tsunam: lol
(01/11/2009 01:38:21 PM) quantumsummers|c: I caqn fly down to New Mexico or something
(01/11/2009 01:38:34 PM) quantumsummers|c: can Mr. Chew assist at all in this?
(01/11/2009 01:38:35 PM) ***NeddySeagoon bangs his gavel
(01/11/2009 01:38:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: 234705 Document of being an active developer ... council moved this to us
(01/11/2009 01:39:02 PM) tsunam: quantumsummers|c: its really a matter of just getting the ein official form in my hands so we can fax that all off to the bank
(01/11/2009 01:39:10 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, No, he gave us the same number into the IRS that tsunam already had, and he's not a tax attorney.
(01/11/2009 01:39:21 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, This is really something for a CPA
(01/11/2009 01:39:26 PM) tsunam: its really just the form is needed
(01/11/2009 01:39:28 PM) tsunam: its that simmple
(01/11/2009 01:39:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm happy that the foundation should do this for foundation members ...
(01/11/2009 01:39:40 PM) antarus: google does owe gentoo 2500$ :)
(01/11/2009 01:39:42 PM) tsunam: and I had to change the mailing address for the foundation with the IRS as well
(01/11/2009 01:39:46 PM) tsunam: if you all recall
(01/11/2009 01:39:53 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(01/11/2009 01:40:04 PM) tsunam: because it was at Daniels old address as well
(01/11/2009 01:40:14 PM) tsunam: that took ~2 months for the government to change
(01/11/2009 01:40:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes, I remember
(01/11/2009 01:40:28 PM) fmccor: And he declined to remain the agent.
fmccor fmccor|work 
(01/11/2009 01:41:14 PM) quantumsummers|c: fmccor daniel did?
(01/11/2009 01:42:13 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, Long ago I invited him to remain our agent, but he declined.
(01/11/2009 01:42:18 PM) quantumsummers|c: I see
(01/11/2009 01:42:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok, next bug
(01/11/2009 01:42:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: 234705 Document of being an active developer ... council moved this to us
(01/11/2009 01:42:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm happy that the foundation should do this for foundation members ...
(01/11/2009 01:42:53 PM) quantumsummers|c: its very good
(01/11/2009 01:43:32 PM) quantumsummers|c: the certificate is a nice idea
(01/11/2009 01:43:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its akin to a reference for a job
(01/11/2009 01:43:38 PM) ***quantumsummers|c is looking at it now
(01/11/2009 01:43:52 PM) quantumsummers|c: http://dev.gentoo.org/~araujo/gcert1.pdf if anyone is interested
(01/11/2009 01:44:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: It could be signed by one of the trustees
(01/11/2009 01:44:52 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes
(01/11/2009 01:45:07 PM) quantumsummers|c: one could easily do a digital sig with a tablet
(01/11/2009 01:45:15 PM) quantumsummers|c: that6 sould be sufficient
(01/11/2009 01:45:52 PM) quantumsummers|c: if really necessary a pgp sig could be placed in fine print too (signing the file)
(01/11/2009 01:45:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: Would most employers be able to verify a digital signature ?
(01/11/2009 01:46:08 PM) quantumsummers|c: I just meant a graphic
(01/11/2009 01:46:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: Ah, ok
(01/11/2009 01:46:20 PM) antarus: I imagine most employers would rather contact Gentoo
(01/11/2009 01:46:25 PM) quantumsummers|c: indeed
(01/11/2009 01:46:25 PM) antarus: than verify some crazy sig
(01/11/2009 01:46:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: antarus, true
(01/11/2009 01:47:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: I don't have a problem with signing and posting a paper document
(01/11/2009 01:47:43 PM) quantumsummers|c: pres or secretary should sign
(01/11/2009 01:47:46 PM) quantumsummers|c: :)
(01/11/2009 01:47:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: heh ok
(01/11/2009 01:48:21 PM) quantumsummers|c: do we sign with our nicks>?
(01/11/2009 01:48:37 PM) quantumsummers|c: prob not a bad thing if so
(01/11/2009 01:48:41 PM) fmccor: Name+nick I would think
(01/11/2009 01:48:47 PM) quantumsummers|c: very nice
(01/11/2009 01:48:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: What do we do with this bug, adopt the cert as is and sign in ink ?
(01/11/2009 01:49:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: real name and nick
(01/11/2009 01:49:16 PM) quantumsummers|c: can use a wacom tablet or similar to produce sig image
(01/11/2009 01:49:23 PM) quantumsummers|c: paste it in
(01/11/2009 01:49:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, I  would rather use a real pen, with ink
(01/11/2009 01:49:51 PM) ***quantumsummers|c doesn't like the font on the cert, but ...
(01/11/2009 01:49:58 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok NeddySeagoon, sounds good
(01/11/2009 01:50:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: so whats the comment on the bug from today ?
(01/11/2009 01:50:30 PM) quantumsummers|c: so that would incur a postage fee, sending it to Scotland & then to whomever
(01/11/2009 01:50:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, print it here, sign and post ... its would not be a lot
(01/11/2009 01:51:09 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok :)
(01/11/2009 01:51:33 PM) quantumsummers|c: would that be automatic or on a per request basis
(01/11/2009 01:51:46 PM) quantumsummers|c: every dev gets one, or only those who ask>
(01/11/2009 01:51:47 PM) quantumsummers|c: ?
(01/11/2009 01:52:03 PM) fmccor: Ask, surely.
(01/11/2009 01:52:06 PM) quantumsummers|c: kk
(01/11/2009 01:52:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: Only those that ask and provide verifiable evidence for checking ... like ask the project leads
(01/11/2009 01:53:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'll write something on the bug
(01/11/2009 01:53:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: next
(01/11/2009 01:53:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: 45227 budget limit for infra repairs
(01/11/2009 01:53:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: We don't want another Osprey
(01/11/2009 01:53:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: did robbat2 make a proposal ?
(01/11/2009 01:54:12 PM) quantumsummers|c: not that I have heard about, I did talk to him about this & he said he would work on it
(01/11/2009 01:54:25 PM) quantumsummers|c: from what I gather, there are 2 machines needed
(01/11/2009 01:54:30 PM) fmccor: I thought he was awaiting financial information from us, which requires a bank accound because Grant is sitting on quite a lot of our money.
(01/11/2009 01:54:43 PM) NeddySeagoon: This bug is for maintainance, not new hardware
(01/11/2009 01:55:00 PM) quantumsummers|c: one for the git based services & another for tree signing
(01/11/2009 01:55:11 PM) quantumsummers|c: big & small respectively
(01/11/2009 01:55:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: comes back to a bank account again ...
(01/11/2009 01:55:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: next bug 
(01/11/2009 01:55:48 PM) NeddySeagoon: Gentoo Store - Add Case stickers, badges   
(01/11/2009 01:56:03 PM) quantumsummers|c: ++
(01/11/2009 01:56:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: a request in the email
(01/11/2009 01:56:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: I suppose it should go on the existing store bug
(01/11/2009 01:57:06 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 4  Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June 2008
(01/11/2009 01:57:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, any progress?
(01/11/2009 01:58:15 PM) tsunam: not currently
(01/11/2009 01:58:22 PM) tsunam: I need to fix the 4th quarter as well
(01/11/2009 01:58:42 PM) tsunam: and without downloading the quarterly possibility, it'll be slow going
(01/11/2009 01:58:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: yeah
(01/11/2009 01:59:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 5 Foundation Knowledge Management Needs - quantumsummers   keep it brief please
(01/11/2009 01:59:31 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok :) I have a few simple apps that I will setup for us to use while I work this out with infra, all login only via ssl. Main app is for maintaining the membership list easily. I will have that up this week.
(01/11/2009 02:00:00 PM) quantumsummers|c: once infra gives go-ahead we can hook into ldap
(01/11/2009 02:00:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok ... I think we have 203 members
(01/11/2009 02:00:35 PM) quantumsummers|c: will also have a little app to upload things like the financial data for safe keeping
(01/11/2009 02:01:04 PM) tsunam: yeah as soon as I get it the EIN certificate will be scanned and digitized 
(01/11/2009 02:01:04 PM) quantumsummers|c: hooking into ldap so devs can keep their own stuff updated
(01/11/2009 02:01:08 PM) tsunam: for vault keeping on that
(01/11/2009 02:01:23 PM) quantumsummers|c: do we have a safe deposit box for things like this?
(01/11/2009 02:01:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: good plan tsunam 
(01/11/2009 02:01:47 PM) NeddySeagoon: should that be with Wayn Chew ?
(01/11/2009 02:02:00 PM) tsunam: the physical?
(01/11/2009 02:02:03 PM) fmccor: Not necessarily.
(01/11/2009 02:02:04 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes
(01/11/2009 02:02:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, yes
(01/11/2009 02:02:20 PM) quantumsummers|c: doesn't have to be with Mr. Chew
(01/11/2009 02:02:35 PM) quantumsummers|c: our cpa may be able to assist with this
(01/11/2009 02:02:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: its a detial, lets move on
(01/11/2009 02:02:56 PM) NeddySeagoon: We can skip Item 6 Actions From Previous Meetings on hold    nothing has changed
(01/11/2009 02:03:07 PM) fmccor: All that needs to be with Wayne Chew is information available to the public for examination.
(01/11/2009 02:03:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, ok
(01/11/2009 02:03:27 PM) fmccor: Well, the e.V. Jan meeting is actually Feb/March
(01/11/2009 02:03:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda Item 7 Membership Applications - Developers ...
(01/11/2009 02:03:44 PM) quantumsummers|c: seems like thta keeps getting pushed
(01/11/2009 02:03:53 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * coldwind
(01/11/2009 02:03:53 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * darkside
(01/11/2009 02:03:53 PM) NeddySeagoon:     * tanderson
(01/11/2009 02:04:05 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, Out of our hands --- ask dertobi123
(01/11/2009 02:04:09 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes
(01/11/2009 02:04:11 PM) fmccor: I vote yes for all.
(01/11/2009 02:04:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: I vote yes to all
(01/11/2009 02:04:40 PM) quantumsummers|c: tsunam: ?
(01/11/2009 02:04:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam,  ??
(01/11/2009 02:04:43 PM) tsunam: yep
(01/11/2009 02:04:56 PM) quantumsummers|c: tsunam: how do you vote?
(01/11/2009 02:04:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: Carried - welcome guys
(01/11/2009 02:05:05 PM) tsunam: as in yep,yes...etc
(01/11/2009 02:05:06 PM) quantumsummers|c: recorded
(01/11/2009 02:05:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: Community members ... WEIRDEDOUT  held over from last moth
(01/11/2009 02:05:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: month*
(01/11/2009 02:05:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: I've been slacking doing some checks
(01/11/2009 02:06:09 PM) tsunam: well you did give us some details so
(01/11/2009 02:06:25 PM) fmccor: This one's dicey, I gather.  My vote is yes, because I think he is exactly the kind of user we want as a member.
(01/11/2009 02:06:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: I suggest carry forward but I would not vote against as I don't know enough
(01/11/2009 02:07:04 PM) fmccor: Others disagree.  I'd still ask him to join us in that case so we can talk to him.
(01/11/2009 02:07:11 PM) tsunam: k
(01/11/2009 02:07:13 PM) NeddySeagoon: ping comprookie2000
(01/11/2009 02:07:14 PM) tsunam: that'd be best
(01/11/2009 02:07:20 PM) antarus: I would wonder why he is not at this meeting, yeah ;)
(01/11/2009 02:07:24 PM) fmccor: His interview with comprookie2000 is very good.
(01/11/2009 02:07:31 PM) tanderson: thanks everyone
(01/11/2009 02:07:42 PM) fmccor: antarus, Well, being in Australia might influence that. :)
(01/11/2009 02:07:46 PM) ***antarus nods
(01/11/2009 02:07:52 PM) antarus: I figured it was a TZ issue ;)
(01/11/2009 02:08:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, you for holding over too ?
(01/11/2009 02:08:25 PM) tsunam: yes i am
(01/11/2009 02:08:31 PM) antarus: hrm
(01/11/2009 02:08:33 PM) fmccor: antarus, He's a family man in Australia, and this is a horrible time for him.
(01/11/2009 02:08:42 PM) antarus: what does the doc say about rejecting *goes to read*
(01/11/2009 02:08:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: antarus, hes not rejected 
(01/11/2009 02:09:28 PM) antarus: I am aware of that
(01/11/2009 02:09:48 PM) fmccor: I was meaning to try to chase him down, but didn't get to it.
(01/11/2009 02:10:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: comprookie2000, has worked with him in the past, if he shows up, we can ask him
(01/11/2009 02:11:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: Item 8  Trustee Elections 2009
(01/11/2009 02:11:40 PM) antarus: putting it on the ballot for every meeting to take no action is not useful; I'd rather reject unclear canidates with some sort of clear feedback on why and they can make changes and apply again(as there appears to be no limitations on applications)
(01/11/2009 02:12:05 PM) antarus: that may be overly harsh for some applicats though ;)
(01/11/2009 02:12:16 PM) ***Philantrop agrees with antarus
(01/11/2009 02:12:45 PM) fmccor: antarus, I don't know if this one knows we want more information or not, actually.
(01/11/2009 02:12:58 PM) antarus: fmccor: that is my concern
(01/11/2009 02:12:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: antarus, In this case, its overly harsh. Its the trustees that have been slacking, not the candiate.
(01/11/2009 02:13:04 PM) antarus: NeddySeagoon: ok ;)
(01/11/2009 02:13:15 PM) quantumsummers|c: I sent him an email last meeting stating that we wanted more info
(01/11/2009 02:13:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: antarus, the candidate provided information we we have failed to check in its entireity.  
(01/11/2009 02:13:56 PM) fmccor: Please send another, CC trustees.
(01/11/2009 02:14:14 PM) antarus: yep, I'm with you ;)
(01/11/2009 02:14:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: So - held over for trustee slacking
(01/11/2009 02:14:41 PM) antarus: I agree with a deferral in that case ;)
(01/11/2009 02:14:52 PM) quantumsummers|c: sent
(01/11/2009 02:14:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: Item 8  Trustee Elections 2009
(01/11/2009 02:16:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: There will be two seats for reelection this year, our current vacancy and dmwaters.  Nominations should open early Feb and voting early March
(01/11/2009 02:16:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: We need an election team
(01/11/2009 02:16:40 PM) quantumsummers|c: nominations run the month of Feb & voting the month of Mar?
(01/11/2009 02:16:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes
(01/11/2009 02:16:51 PM) antarus: we could use the typical team, assuming none of them are running
(01/11/2009 02:17:03 PM) jmbsvicetto: antarus: I'm not ;)
(01/11/2009 02:17:11 PM) quantumsummers|c: hi jmbsvicetto!
(01/11/2009 02:17:11 PM) antarus: rane, fox2mike, myself, and jmbsvicetto 
(01/11/2009 02:17:11 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto was going to set up an elections project but I don't know if that happened
(01/11/2009 02:17:26 PM) antarus: NeddySeagoon: we basically have an unofficial one at this point ;)
(01/11/2009 02:17:27 PM) jmbsvicetto: running, but am interested in running another election
(01/11/2009 02:17:32 PM) jmbsvicetto: Hi quantumsummers|c 
(01/11/2009 02:17:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: antarus, is that an offer ?  if so sccepted
(01/11/2009 02:17:58 PM) jmbsvicetto: antarus: yeah, but I've been meaning to send a mail announcing the team ;)
(01/11/2009 02:18:37 PM) jmbsvicetto: antarus: I was also going to create a page with some information about how an election is run and technical details
(01/11/2009 02:18:54 PM) ***antarus certainly won't stop you ;p
(01/11/2009 02:18:56 PM) jmbsvicetto: NeddySeagoon: one important question - are we going to have non-dev members in the foundation for this election?
(01/11/2009 02:19:12 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes
(01/11/2009 02:19:14 PM) fmccor: jmbsvicetto, We can.
(01/11/2009 02:19:22 PM) quantumsummers|c: so far comprookie2000, & Philantrop
(01/11/2009 02:19:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, yes ... mostly ex-devs ... only comprookie2000 is a never been dev as far as I know
(01/11/2009 02:19:36 PM) jmbsvicetto: I know we can, but the point is whether we already have them for this election
(01/11/2009 02:19:41 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, plus lots of ex-developers perhaps.
(01/11/2009 02:19:50 PM) quantumsummers|c: true
(01/11/2009 02:20:29 PM) fmccor: jmbsvicetto, We always have, I think.  But yes (any ex-developer/member)
(01/11/2009 02:20:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, you can use the same method as you used for ex devs last year
(01/11/2009 02:20:39 PM) jmbsvicetto: ok, in that case I suggest we keep using votify/countify for this election and as before ask those members to send a gpg signed email to all election officials
(01/11/2009 02:20:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, you have the keys
(01/11/2009 02:21:02 PM) quantumsummers|c: does the elections team have an alias?
(01/11/2009 02:21:03 PM) fmccor: Sounds good.
(01/11/2009 02:21:09 PM) quantumsummers|c: email alias that is
(01/11/2009 02:21:09 PM) antarus: quantumsummers|c: we don't even have a team ;)
(01/11/2009 02:21:11 PM) jmbsvicetto: The foundation needs to solve the issue of the gpg keys for ex-devs
(01/11/2009 02:21:36 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: I'm going to ask robbat2 to create elections@ g dot o
(01/11/2009 02:21:43 PM) quantumsummers|c: its difficult for those that do not respond or have non-working emails jmbsvicetto
(01/11/2009 02:21:50 PM) jmbsvicetto: antarus: want to be in it? rane?
(01/11/2009 02:21:58 PM) antarus: jmbsvicetto: I am making it right now
(01/11/2009 02:22:04 PM) jmbsvicetto: antarus: ok, thanks
(01/11/2009 02:22:20 PM) antarus: aww I need robbat2 foo
(01/11/2009 02:22:23 PM) antarus: stupid gentoo
(01/11/2009 02:22:25 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: right, but aren't gpg keys mandatory?
(01/11/2009 02:22:29 PM) jmbsvicetto: HEHE
(01/11/2009 02:22:32 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes
(01/11/2009 02:22:34 PM) jmbsvicetto: sorry, caps
(01/11/2009 02:22:52 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: then members need to solve any email issues
(01/11/2009 02:23:04 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: And these days there's "tons" of free mail providers
(01/11/2009 02:23:08 PM) quantumsummers|c: its ok, I will make the list availble next week to the trustees & any dev that needs access
(01/11/2009 02:23:20 PM) quantumsummers|c: we can update whomever
(01/11/2009 02:23:25 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, If they don't respond and the email doesn't work, it's fair to believe they are going inactive.  They should all be on gentoo-nfp.
(01/11/2009 02:23:27 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: I'll ping you about it
fmccor fmccor|work 
(01/11/2009 02:23:37 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok fmccor
(01/11/2009 02:23:39 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok jmbsvicetto
(01/11/2009 02:23:45 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: Oh, you mean expired addresses? I see.
(01/11/2009 02:23:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, the members list for the election closes at the end of this meeting
(01/11/2009 02:24:02 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers|c, (If you need it, I have an email for jakub, but so do you because it's on his bug. :) )
(01/11/2009 02:24:07 PM) jmbsvicetto: You'll have to determine how you'll "confirm" their identity
(01/11/2009 02:24:28 PM) quantumsummers|c: it would be nice to have a gpg key trail
(01/11/2009 02:24:29 PM) jmbsvicetto: We (election team) had to deal with this last year. Now that the foundation is working, we're "pleased" to drop it to you ;)
(01/11/2009 02:24:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, thank you
(01/11/2009 02:24:52 PM) jmbsvicetto: *g*
(01/11/2009 02:25:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, are the timescales ok ?
(01/11/2009 02:25:59 PM) jmbsvicetto: It's up to you. We can do 1 week, 2 weeks or 1 month, if you prefer
(01/11/2009 02:26:06 PM) quantumsummers|c: those are all of Feb for nominations & all of March for voting?
(01/11/2009 02:26:20 PM) jmbsvicetto: Given recent elections, I don't know if we should keep the 1 month, but it's up to the trustees
(01/11/2009 02:26:35 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: That's what I understood
(01/11/2009 02:26:41 PM) quantumsummers|c: k
(01/11/2009 02:26:42 PM) antarus: 254584 for the alias
(01/11/2009 02:26:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto, Feb for nominations, March for votes, results on 29 March ... 4 weeks each
(01/11/2009 02:27:08 PM) jmbsvicetto: NeddySeagoon: In that case, please grant us 1 day between nominations and voting and 1 or 2 days to publish results
(01/11/2009 02:27:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: thats as last year
(01/11/2009 02:27:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: jmbsvicetto ok
(01/11/2009 02:27:56 PM) quantumsummers|c: antarus: I can help write a webapp for voting, should be simple enough
(01/11/2009 02:27:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: take office on 31 March ...
(01/11/2009 02:28:10 PM) antarus: quantumsummers|c: that was my thought ;)
(01/11/2009 02:28:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers|c, votes have to be verified with keys
(01/11/2009 02:28:35 PM) quantumsummers|c: sure
(01/11/2009 02:28:51 PM) quantumsummers|c: we can discuss the constraints
(01/11/2009 02:28:59 PM) jmbsvicetto: so you want nominations from Feb 1 (Sunday) to 28 Feb (Sat) and voting from Mar 2 (Monday) to Mar 29 (Sunday)?
(01/11/2009 02:29:07 PM) antarus: a small design doc should not take long
(01/11/2009 02:29:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes please jmbsvicetto 
(01/11/2009 02:29:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, tsunam ?
(01/11/2009 02:29:35 PM) jmbsvicetto: My suggestion is for us to look at devotee (debian)
(01/11/2009 02:29:37 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(01/11/2009 02:29:46 PM) tsunam: all seems fine with me
(01/11/2009 02:29:57 PM) jmbsvicetto: I think it might be better to use an already working solution than starting from scratch
(01/11/2009 02:29:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: thank you
(01/11/2009 02:30:22 PM) jmbsvicetto: but I'll leave that for the elections project
(01/11/2009 02:30:28 PM) NeddySeagoon: The details can be worked out later
(01/11/2009 02:31:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 9 Does Gentoo use the Quicktime Penguin logo
(01/11/2009 02:31:07 PM) quantumsummers|c: yes it does
(01/11/2009 02:31:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: we have had an email about that
(01/11/2009 02:31:23 PM) quantumsummers|c: looked into this, appears to be the same graphic
(01/11/2009 02:31:48 PM) quantumsummers|c: whether or not this matters I am uncertain
(01/11/2009 02:31:58 PM) NeddySeagoon: Do we know what Apple registered ?
(01/11/2009 02:32:09 PM) quantumsummers|c: its a slightly modified version
(01/11/2009 02:32:23 PM) quantumsummers|c: NeddySeagoon: not exactly
(01/11/2009 02:33:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: we need to look into that, since if its Apples registered mark, we need to get permission or stop using it
(01/11/2009 02:34:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'm unhappy about using something similar enough to cause confustion
(01/11/2009 02:34:25 PM) antarus: it is not a good place to be
(01/11/2009 02:34:32 PM) antarus: so there are two problems no?
(01/11/2009 02:34:35 PM) antarus: one is trademark
(01/11/2009 02:34:38 PM) antarus: the other is copyright
(01/11/2009 02:34:39 PM) quantumsummers|c: we can switch that graphic rather easily
(01/11/2009 02:35:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: antarus, yes.  We should just change our graphic
(01/11/2009 02:35:09 PM) ***antarus agrees
(01/11/2009 02:35:22 PM) quantumsummers|c: is that an infra thing?
(01/11/2009 02:35:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: Who is that a bug for ... documentation ?
(01/11/2009 02:36:11 PM) antarus: do we have a replacement graphic?
(01/11/2009 02:36:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: I don't know but I doubt it
(01/11/2009 02:36:48 PM) quantumsummers|c: I suggest a Michael Phelps-like penguin :)
(01/11/2009 02:38:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, can you raise a bug that points out the possible legal implications of the confusion pleas
(01/11/2009 02:38:53 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, Yes.
(01/11/2009 02:38:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: probably on docs, cc us so we can track progress
(01/11/2009 02:39:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: Agenda item 10  Date of Next Meeting - Sunday 15 February 2009 1900 UTC
(01/11/2009 02:39:40 PM) fmccor: OK with me.
(01/11/2009 02:39:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: Thats the first Sunday afyer the 2nd Thursday ..
(01/11/2009 02:39:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: after*
(01/11/2009 02:40:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, ^^
(01/11/2009 02:40:05 PM) tsunam: k
(01/11/2009 02:40:13 PM) tsunam: I'll try to set a reminder on my phone
(01/11/2009 02:40:14 PM) jmbsvicetto: about the bug, gentoo-artwork might be a better option - assuming the team still exists
(01/11/2009 02:40:20 PM) tsunam: so I don't have to be called ~-`
(01/11/2009 02:40:28 PM) jmbsvicetto: I don't know if docs or infra care about such things
(01/11/2009 02:40:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, hehe
(01/11/2009 02:41:17 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its a legal thing, we have to make someone who can fix it care 
(01/11/2009 02:41:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: Item 11 Any other business
(01/11/2009 02:41:39 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor,  ?
(01/11/2009 02:41:48 PM) antarus: Google owes Gentoo 2500 dollars
(01/11/2009 02:41:49 PM) fmccor: I had thought so
(01/11/2009 02:41:51 PM) antarus: for last summer
(01/11/2009 02:41:57 PM) antarus: I still haven't submitted the PO
(01/11/2009 02:41:59 PM) antarus: because I suck
(01/11/2009 02:42:23 PM) antarus: can you add an item to the next agenda to make sure that is done by next month?
(01/11/2009 02:42:26 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, I was expecting a bug from armin76 requesting 56 Euro funding to help with sh development.
(01/11/2009 02:43:04 PM) fmccor: But I haven't seen it.  Otherwise, no.
(01/11/2009 02:43:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam, AoB
(01/11/2009 02:43:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, we can deal with that bug when it happens
(01/11/2009 02:44:58 PM) fmccor: True.
(01/11/2009 02:45:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: I guess, that means nothing from tsunam 
(01/11/2009 02:45:18 PM) fmccor: I was just alerting people that such a request is in the works.
(01/11/2009 02:45:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: Item 12 Open floor
(01/11/2009 02:45:34 PM) tsunam: nope
(01/11/2009 02:45:39 PM) tsunam: nothing from me
(01/11/2009 02:45:54 PM) mode (+v mpagano ) by ChanServ
(01/11/2009 02:46:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have one thing ... members are +v here, except two that do not have irc accounts
(01/11/2009 02:46:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: any more for any more 
(01/11/2009 02:46:41 PM) jmbsvicetto: quantumsummers|c: will you be our foundation contact for the election?
(01/11/2009 02:46:58 PM) quantumsummers|c: I certainly can, if the trustees approve
(01/11/2009 02:47:05 PM) quantumsummers|c: jmbsvicetto: ^
(01/11/2009 02:47:07 PM) fmccor: Fine with me.
(01/11/2009 02:47:14 PM) NeddySeagoon: fine with me
(01/11/2009 02:47:26 PM) jmbsvicetto: ok, we can talk later about details then
(01/11/2009 02:47:31 PM) quantumsummers|c: ok
(01/11/2009 02:47:43 PM) ***NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed