20:00  * NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Roll call 
20:00 <@robbat2|na> yo
20:00 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, robbat2|na fmccor quantumsummers 
20:00 <@tsunam> yep
20:00 -!- robbat2|na is now known as robbat2
20:00 <@fmccor> Here.  All snakes are toxic.
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> ok, we have a quorum, skipping Introductions, Actions From the Last Meeting ... and quantumsummers stuff
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June 2008 - tsunam
20:02 <@fmccor> Some will kill you, some just hurt a lot.
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, you were going to pass it to robbat2 for checking
20:02 <@tsunam> I've just pushed to cvs the changes for the website that will bring us up to date
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, So its complete, or does it need to be checked still ?
20:03 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: it should be check. I still need to balance so that we are current with what we have phsically 
20:03 <@tsunam> in cash
20:03 <@quantumsummers> hi
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, ok, we will leave the action until thats complete
20:04 <@tsunam> so I still have some work to do to be considered entirely complete but it at least has the paypal + paypal fee's complete
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, hi, your stuff
20:04 <@quantumsummers> yea
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> Certified Public Accountant - quantumsummers
20:05 <@quantumsummers> CPA awaits financials from tsunam, we're in good shape. also need the fins validated for 501c3, I will be sending a checklist to tsunam soon
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> fins ?
20:05 <@quantumsummers> financials
20:05 <@tsunam> fins = financials
20:05 <@quantumsummers> sorry
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> thanks
20:06 <@tsunam> note: part of that financials includes the equipment that we own
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, does that mean we have retained a CPA who will be billing us ?
20:06 <@tsunam> as trustee's have noted I've got part of the info from infra, but I beleive we have some switches etc we own as well
20:07 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: I have been "taking care" of any cost associated with the CPA talks as part of my normal fees
20:07 <@tsunam> quantumsummers: bah :(
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, id its old stiff, we can write it down to zero value.  No idea if that helps
20:07 <@quantumsummers> so, basically there is no cost until we need them to do something besides give advice
20:07 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: not old enough yet
20:08 <@robbat2> what's the age requirements for that?
20:08 <@quantumsummers> we need 7 years of financials due to SOX rules
20:08 <@robbat2> i don't think we have any switches, but we do have some serial consoles
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Hmm, ok. keep a record of the 'donations' you have been makeing
20:08 <@quantumsummers> maintain 7 years
20:08 <@tsunam> quantumsummers: at most we have 2005 q3 forward. We don't have anything before that
20:09 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: no real way to do that, I get a flat rate per year, so its all good. I dont think I am being charged extra
20:09 <@tsunam> quantumsummers: let me know if you are
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, what about donations in kind ... although, they were never made to the Foundation ?
20:09 <@quantumsummers> tsunam: ok, it is what it is
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, thanks, its all good then
20:10 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: those I don't actually track, as its been next to impossible to get a value of what the rates would be from those vendors
20:10 <@tsunam> NeddySeagoon: I've tried in the past
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, Is it important to the IRS ?
20:11 <@tsunam> for 501c3 I beleive there's some requirements but quantumsummers would kow better then me at this point on that aspect
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:11 <@quantumsummers> looking
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, later ...
20:11 <@quantumsummers> seems like we should be ok, I have an instrument to collect this info now, for future use
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Send friendly cease and desist emails to copyright infringers - quantumsummers
20:12 <@quantumsummers> C&Ds have been sent to Cafepress, they gave me a 30 to 60 day thing, so I'm following up every couple of weeks
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, any others ?
20:12 <@quantumsummers> I have not sent any to other places, as I have no record of outstanding issues
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:12 <@quantumsummers> I think a bug for each would be nice so I can track easier
20:12 <@quantumsummers> atm I use a simple list
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> worksforme
20:12 <@quantumsummers> kk
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> Trustees and Foundation Article For the News Feed -All.  I've updated my input and added fmccors
20:13  * quantumsummers facepalm
20:13 <@quantumsummers> I need to write a little ditty7
20:13 <@robbat2> yeah, me too
20:13 <@quantumsummers> oh, wait. I have something
20:13  * tsunam is a slacker as well
20:14  * quantumsummers sends intial draft
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/docs/trustees_GMN.xml
20:14 <@NeddySeagoon> thats what we have so far ^^^
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Forward the Projektfarm GmbH and emtom.cz applications to dertobi123 - NeddySeagoon
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> I did that yesterday.  RL has been hetic
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> Talk to Lawyers about fees and impact of 501c3 staus - fmccor
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> ping fmccor ..
20:16 <@tsunam> maybe one of the kids escaped
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> He must be bathing his snake bites
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> Write to www.linuxcenter.kz to inform them of approval - quantumsummers
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, than you can close the bug
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> ten*
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> we can come back to that
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> 3. Actions From Previous Meetings on hold for one or more actions above
20:18 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: gotcha
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> The Gentoo e.V meeting is unlikely to be held until October
20:19 <@quantumsummers> hmm. ok
20:19 <@NeddySeagoon> so that brings us to  Fix name and address on IPR/trademark documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees - fmccor
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> 4. Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees 
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> 261785 Transfer gentoo.be from Sejo to the Gentoo Foundation, Inc.- Reimburse robbat2
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, did you get your money back ?
20:21 <@tsunam>  nope he has not
20:22 <@robbat2> not yet
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, is that on your todo list or do you need more votes on the bug ?
20:23 <@tsunam> its a low enough value I should be able to just approve it myself, but the added votes is not bad that you did
20:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, fmccor see bug 261785 and consider adding your votes in favour
20:23 < Willikins> NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/261785 "transfer gentoo.be from Sejo to the Gentoo Foundation, Inc."; Gentoo Infrastructure, Other; ASSI; quantumsummers@g.o:infra-bugs@g.o
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> 253491 Gentoo Store - Add Case stickers, badges see draft stores page
20:24 <@NeddySeagoon> http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/stores.xml feedback anyone ?
20:25 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: that is a nice page, I like it
20:25 <@robbat2> +1 on it
20:25 <@robbat2> commit it
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, look at the Techiant, LLC , they have their copyright over our logo.  I don't think they can do that
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Techiant, LLC  link
20:26 <@quantumsummers> I do have something to mention here, regarding NeddySeagoon's point, yes there is a problem with the watermark
20:26 <@robbat2> on this page: http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/where.xml there's places that sell CDs, can we move that list to the stores.xml too?
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, OK, I'll commit it after the meeting
20:27 <@fmccor> Problem with lawyers is that they are pressed for money.  Clients have none, and it "trickles down" --- so I can't push them.
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2 yes.  I'll fix that after the meeting
20:27 <@tsunam> I would agree with robin's suggestion for getting cd's, badges etc all on one page
20:27 <@robbat2> seperate CDs from approved merchanise
20:27 <@tsunam> fmccor: would it be beneficial to talk about becoming a at least in part "paying" client
20:27 <@robbat2> on the page
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, So if we pay them ... how much
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, agreed
20:28 <@fmccor> tsunam, Yes.
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, did you open discussions ?
20:28 <@tsunam> fmccor: only issue I see is the "what defines what we pay for and what's probono still"
20:28 <@fmccor> No, awaiting decision here.
20:28 <@tsunam> that would need to be clearly defined obviously
20:29 <@tsunam> fmccor: would it most beneficial to do it based on "hours"? first x hours are probono, after that at $x rate?
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, the other way around is more benefical to the law firm
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> brb
20:30 <@tsunam> k
20:30 <@robbat2> money for bug 261785 recieved :-)
20:30 < Willikins> robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/261785 "transfer gentoo.be from Sejo to the Gentoo Foundation, Inc."; Gentoo Infrastructure, Other; ASSI; quantumsummers@g.o:infra-bugs@g.o
20:30 <@tsunam> k
20:30 <@tsunam> I'll close it then
20:30 <@quantumsummers> nice
20:32 <@fmccor> tsunam, Yes, good idea.  Our Boston lawyer is going to be about $500/hour. but I think we can negotiate something.  Problem is as I said --- no one wants to pay lawyers in this economy, and it trickles down. ...
20:32 <@tsunam> *nods*
20:32 <@tsunam> fmccor: obviously I would hope we could negotiate a lower rate
20:33 <@tsunam> the other option is something like an annual retainer. Those are the 2 main options reguarding lawyer firms that I'm aware of
20:33 -!- quantumsummers|c [n=msummers@gentoo/developer/quantumsummers] has joined #gentoo-trustees
20:33 -!- mode/#gentoo-trustees [+o quantumsummers|c] by ChanServ
20:33 <@quantumsummers|c> switched accounts
20:33 <@tsunam> as we're small enough and don't have much in the way of lawyering that needs to be done the former should be better for us I believe
20:33 <@fmccor> tsunam, Yes, so would I.  They must exist, and that's the problem.  San Diego lawyer is not there any more.
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, you were also suggesting moving everything to Boston 
20:35 <@fmccor> Yes --- California lawyer is gone.
20:36 <@tsunam> then there's really no option, we should do it
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> agreed
20:36 <@quantumsummers|c> I agree
20:36 <@fmccor> ^San Diego^San Jose
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Does that count as a vote ?
20:36 <@tsunam> fmccor: I think you just got your approval
20:36 <@tsunam> I would say yes
20:36 <@quantumsummers|c> good enough for me :)
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, you just got your approval.
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, and sorry about my poor geography
20:38 <@tsunam> should have a vote to enter discussion about becoming a paid client for lawyers
20:38 <@robbat2> +1 on moving it
20:38 <@fmccor> OK.  I can say then that she was laid off, and I have not heard of a replacement.  I'll contact Boston to see if they are still around.
20:38 <@NeddySeagoon> discussions are harmless. We need to know what our options are +1
20:39 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, I hope she has found another job. 
20:40 <@fmccor> NeddySeagoon, So do I.  She is very good, but specialised in a bad market.
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Vote on entering into discussions with Boston law firm wrt to becoming paying clients in some respect
20:40 <@tsunam> aye
20:40 <@robbat2> aye
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> aye
20:40 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
20:40 <@fmccor> aye
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> Carried 
20:40 <@quantumsummers|c> recorded
20:40 <@NeddySeagoon> there you go fmccor.
20:41 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, where does that leave Fix name and address on IPR/trademark documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees  ?
20:41 <@fmccor> I'll start on it next week, middle of my dental surgery.
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> It will be a year old next month
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:42 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 5 New Licence Applications ... None
20:43 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 6 Membership Applications - None
20:43 <@fmccor> That should have been done.  I haven't a clue where it is, and that's part of moving things to Boston.
20:44 <@NeddySeagoon> Yeah, thats what I thought.  Have we been billed for the $200 ?  If not, its probably not done
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> Item 7 New Business ... Terms of Screenshot Contest ...
20:45 <@fmccor> I *think* it's hung up with the feds --- otherwise, she was just lying to me.
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, can we find out ?
20:45 <@fmccor> Yes
20:45 <@NeddySeagoon> please do
20:46 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, was wanting to clairify some terms of the Screenshot Contest, so we could use the submittals
20:47  * quantumsummers|c suggests the cc-sa-nc lic for this one
20:48 <@quantumsummers|c> share alike-non-commercial should be good, yes?
20:49 <@robbat2> +1 from me
20:49 <@quantumsummers|c> do we have a precendent?
20:49  * quantumsummers|c looks
20:50 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, I'm happy with that but often in the artistic community, the artist retains IP in a work. As long as Gentoo can use it at no charge, I'm happy
20:50 <+jmbsvicetto> quantumsummers|c: Isn't cc-sa-nc the license we already use for doc contributions?
20:50 <@quantumsummers|c> jmbsvicetto: hmm, not sure. it is what is used on http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/shots.xml
20:51 <@robbat2> that page is just BY-SA 2.5
20:52 <@quantumsummers|c> handbook is attribution share-alike
20:52 <+jmbsvicetto> quantumsummers|c: looking at http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/gdp/doc/doc-policy.xml#doc_chap3 , seems they use by-sa 2.5
20:52 <@robbat2> do we really need the -NC variant?
20:52 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2: not really
20:53 <@quantumsummers|c> by-sa-2.5 is good
20:53 <@robbat2> ok, so just make it explicitly BY-SA 2.5, to match existing licensing
20:53 <@quantumsummers|c> yes, good
20:53 <@quantumsummers|c> interesting that the nc is omitted for our docs, probably better that way
20:54 <@quantumsummers|c> good the way it is, I mean
20:54 <@robbat2> yeah, I think commercial remixs that are sold, but include the proper attributions are perfectly fine
20:54 <@quantumsummers|c> +1
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, tsunam ^^
20:54 <@tsunam> it is fine with me
20:54 <@NeddySeagoon> me too.
20:55 <@fmccor> Yes, should be PK.
20:55 <@fmccor> ^OK
20:55 <@NeddySeagoon> So we are agreed that the licence should be by-sa-2.5
20:55 <@fmccor> yes
20:55 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, please respond to dabbotts emial
20:56 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: yes sir
20:56 <+dabbott> ty
20:56 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, there you are
20:56 <+dabbott> yes
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Next Item  The Year Ahead
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> Only its a little over 6 months now
20:57 <@NeddySeagoon> We were all supposed to contribute ideas for this discussion but I've not seen anything on the ml
20:58 <@NeddySeagoon> Does anyone have anything now ?
20:58 <@quantumsummers|c> my manifesto covers much of my thoughts
20:58 <@quantumsummers|c> 501c3 is HUGE
20:58 <@quantumsummers|c> seems like our mission is strong
20:59 <@fmccor> I'd like to bring musikc in for this, although she's not around now.  She has some ideas for us and wishes to contribute.
20:59 <@quantumsummers|c> great!
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, yep, my main concern is finding trustees in the future
20:59 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, fine, I'm in no hurry to discuss it right now
21:00 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: indeed, is there any interest in soliciting folks from the broader f/oss or commercial worlds?
21:00 <@NeddySeagoon> Sure, we should find out what the community wants us to do, since we need to promote Gentoo to the community
21:01 <@quantumsummers|c> I agree, but how to reach the silent majority
21:01 <@robbat2> regarding promotion, I ran an imprompt Gentoo BoF session at the Linux Symposium last week
21:01 <@quantumsummers|c> perhaps an eselect news item? is that permitted?
21:02 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2: nice, how was it?
21:02 <@fmccor> NeddySeagoon, My vision is to pass things off to the officers, and for the board to stand back.  But then, we are the officers....
21:02 <@robbat2> even amongst the gentoo users in the room (15% of attendees), they aren't aware of stuff that has been going on
21:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats always a problem ... thats a good one, we would need to get the council to agree
21:03 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, we will always need trustees - but I agree about getting officers to do the work
21:03 <@fmccor> exactly.
21:03 <@quantumsummers|c> eselect news seems like a good way to get things in front of users
21:03 <@quantumsummers|c> albeit annoying
21:04 <@NeddySeagoon> It will be interesting to see what the competition is like in the Feb 2010 election
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, lets get it on the council agenda for the next meeting, not tomorrows, the one after
21:05 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: ok
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> maybe get a Gentoo is 10 enews item too
21:05 <@quantumsummers|c> yes, I like that\
21:05 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, ^^
21:06 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: anyone know the best way to reach council, alias?
21:06 <@robbat2> yup
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more for the year ahead ?
21:06 <@fmccor> NeddySeagoon, with all due respect, for once we are in much better shape than council. :)
21:06 <@robbat2> the alias goes to the council plus the private archive
21:06 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, hehe yea
21:07 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2: thanks
21:07 <@quantumsummers|c> I will email them
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, on
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - Sunday 16th August 2009 at 1900 UTC
21:07 <@tsunam> that'll work for me
21:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Is that OK for everyone ?
21:08 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: on the use of eselect
21:08 <@quantumsummers|c> works for me
21:08 <@fmccor> I'll open discussions with our Boston lawyers tomorrow.  16 August is my birthday, and I expect a party. :)
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, yeah, we want the council to agree to two eselect news items.  One for us and one for Gentoo is 10
21:09 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: ok
21:09 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, You could invite us all, then we don't need to use IRC
21:09 <@robbat2> that date is good for me
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, are you willing to give up an hour of your birthday ?
21:10 <@fmccor> NeddySeagoon, Yes.
21:10 <@quantumsummers|c> :)
21:10 <@NeddySeagoon> ok , Sunday 16th August 2009 at 1900 UTC it is then
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business
21:11 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
21:11 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, on you go
21:11 <@robbat2> other business:
21:11 <@quantumsummers|c> 2 things
21:11 <@robbat2> armin76 relays that Marvell would like to use our logo for presentations and linking back to us to for their hardware that can run gentoo
21:12 <@robbat2> they've donated some hardware to armin76, and will also be donating another dev system
21:12 <@quantumsummers|c> that is awesome
21:12 <@NeddySeagoon> Sonds linke we just need and acknowledgement
21:12 <@quantumsummers|c> should be fine
21:13 <@tsunam> yeah
21:13 <@robbat2> I think we just need to get them to include a trademark notice on the logo on the webpage, in presentations it'll probably be fine
21:13 <@quantumsummers|c> the TM can go in ALT tag
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> yeah, we don't want to mess up their presentaions
21:13 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, we have a precendent for that
21:14 <@quantumsummers|c> yes
21:14 <@robbat2> just word it that it is somewhere with the logo, I don't think we need to be that specific to be in the ALT
21:14 <@quantumsummers|c> ok
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm ok with that
21:14 <@robbat2> i've got one more item, quantumsummers what are your 2 items?
21:14 <@NeddySeagoon> fmccor, tsunam  ?
21:14 <@quantumsummers|c> robbat2: go ahead
21:14 <@tsunam> nothing from me
21:15 <@NeddySeagoon> tsunam, on the logo thing ^^
21:15 <@tsunam> oh its fine with me
21:15 <@fmccor> Nothing more from me.
21:15 <@robbat2> related to the new dev system, the hardware is either going to end up at SevenL in Toronto (with other dev systems), OR in Vancouver at Serenity networks (i've got an independent discussion with them, more details in a sec)
21:16 <@robbat2> regardless of where it ends up, we're going to need to be buying some supporting bits
21:16 <@robbat2> i haven't filled in any budgeting plans yet, but i'd just like an ack for the general concept
21:16  * fmccor approves
21:16 <@tsunam> what bits are you requiring robbat2 ?
21:17 <@quantumsummers|c> good wiith that here
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, how much money?  You best WAG
21:17 <@NeddySeagoon> your*
21:17 <@tsunam> see NeddySeagoon asks the right question. I ask as a techy person :-P
21:17 <@robbat2> infra to run it: remote PDU, switch, - together probably $500-$1k
21:17 <@robbat2> of components: RAM/HDD/cables: probably $500 total
21:17 <@tsunam> so 1-1.5k in total
21:18  * fmccor approves that as well.
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> Sounds ok to me
21:18 <@quantumsummers|c> yes +1
21:18 <@tsunam> robbat2: limit based on your request will be 1500
21:18 <@tsunam> robbat2: if it should go over that we will need to approve for the greater amount 
21:18 <@robbat2> relevant disclosure with Serenity Networks: I rent a 5U space there for my own personal server (that happens to run Willikins), but i've been helping him out with some BGP issues, and I raised him as a potential sponsor for the dev boxes
21:18 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, we will need at least 2 quotes to show value for money but its good if you can get it all from the same plae
21:18 <@robbat2> yeah, I want to make an actual quote up
21:19 <@robbat2> so far it's going to have to be 2 stores, but that's just because I can get it really cheap locally that way
21:19 <@tsunam> that's fine
21:20 <@robbat2> my spare parts bins are the first source of things
21:20 <@robbat2> rather than buying
21:20 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, its just to show we take getting value for money seriously for audits. We will need to keep the quotes
21:20 <@robbat2> yup
21:20 <@quantumsummers|c> oops its 3 actually. 1. I have located a solid high quality vendor tshirts (american apparel) that is more than willing to go 50/50 with us. I was thinking of a limited edition run. they will dropship as well. 2. I will need somewhere around $1000 to submit the 1023 form to the IRS when its ready. 3. I am interested in soliciting for an Assistant Secretary at this time.
21:21 <@robbat2> tsunam, just one quick bit, can you send me the source material you used to compile the data for the FY reports please?
21:21 <@tsunam> 2 ) has my approval
21:21 <@tsunam> 1) I don't really want to deal with
21:21 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, you can get arrested in the UK for soliciting
21:21 <@tsunam> robbat2: sure
21:21 <@fmccor> 3) is fine with me.
21:21 <@quantumsummers|c> so #1, the dude is local to me, I have seen the product, its nice. I think there is some chance we could get higher quality && more donation from this vendor
21:22 <@tsunam> 30 to what extent would be their responsibility
21:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, the fee is fine, we can't avoid that
21:22 <@robbat2> +1 on the fee
21:22 <@tsunam> 3)
21:22 <@NeddySeagoon> 3 is ok too
21:22 <@quantumsummers|c> #3, I want to get them going on some of the boring stuff & using the KM system asap
21:22 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, you can pick up the ad you answered
21:23 <@quantumsummers|c> which, when anyone wishes I can setup users in in the sys
21:23 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: ok, I will be explicit regarding expected duties
21:23 <@quantumsummers|c> & email around for comments
21:23 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, ok.
21:24 <@quantumsummers|c> I hope to get the individual ready to take over as Sec when split roles occurs
21:24 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, is 1. printed Tee shirts?
21:24 <@quantumsummers|c> yes, other goods are available as well.
21:24 <@quantumsummers|c> but I was thinking of a tshirt fund raiser
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> limited edition
21:25 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers|c, share it on the alias, so we can give it some thought
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> there is no set # to order
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> ok, will do
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> I have numbers from them as well
21:25 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, 10th Birthday edition 
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> I'll attache
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> NeddySeagoon: exactly
21:25 <@quantumsummers|c> artwork can be quite simple
21:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Any more other Business ?
21:26 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor
21:28  * NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
21:28 <@NeddySeagoon> Thank you everyone
