(06/14/2009 02:00:49 PM) ***NeddySeagoon calls the meeting to order.
(06/14/2009 02:00:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: Roll call
(06/14/2009 02:00:58 PM) tsunam_: here
(06/14/2009 02:00:59 PM) fmccor: Here.
(06/14/2009 02:01:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, robbat2 ?
(06/14/2009 02:01:36 PM) robbat2: i'm here
(06/14/2009 02:02:06 PM) NeddySeagoon: We have a quaram ... lets skip Agenda
item 1. We all know one another.
(06/14/2009 02:02:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: Item 2 Actions From the Last Meeting 
(06/14/2009 02:02:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: skipping quantumsummers stuff ...  we can
come back to it if he shows up
(06/14/2009 02:02:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June
2008   thats last year 
(06/14/2009 02:02:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, ^^
(06/14/2009 02:03:16 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair is here, sorry I'm late ... I
gotta unload the car real quick
(06/14/2009 02:03:18 PM) tsunam_: Fiscal year isn't up yet
(06/14/2009 02:03:29 PM) tsunam_: so I can't give a report on our fiscal year
end totals yet ^_^
(06/14/2009 02:03:35 PM) robbat2: ending 2008, not 09
(06/14/2009 02:03:38 PM) fmccor: Ends July !?
(06/14/2009 02:03:39 PM) tsunam_: oh
(06/14/2009 02:03:43 PM) tsunam_: sorry
(06/14/2009 02:03:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, thats for fiscal year ending
June 2008 not 2009
(06/14/2009 02:03:50 PM) tsunam_: my bad
(06/14/2009 02:04:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: you were haveing paypal issues
(06/14/2009 02:04:39 PM) tsunam_: I've not finished it yet :( I got all the data
from 2005-2009 so far 
(06/14/2009 02:04:49 PM) tsunam_: I need to review each report we've generated
and confirm everything
(06/14/2009 02:05:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: Will the IRS want it if we get audited ?
(06/14/2009 02:05:09 PM) tsunam_: yes they would
(06/14/2009 02:05:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: So its a 'must do'  and FY 09 ends in two
weeks.   so we will have another report to do.  
(06/14/2009 02:06:01 PM) tsunam_: I'd also liketo be able to with absolute
certainty say that the reports are accurate (pending ing finalizing)
(06/14/2009 02:06:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, do you have the time to do it
(06/14/2009 02:06:11 PM) tsunam_: yes I will get it done
(06/14/2009 02:06:11 PM) robbat2: tsunam_, what help do you need from me on
those?
(06/14/2009 02:06:26 PM) robbat2: since I noted the needed corrections to the
previous ones
(06/14/2009 02:06:27 PM) tsunam_: robbat2: review things when I finish them
(06/14/2009 02:06:28 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: we can talk to the cpa as well
(06/14/2009 02:06:48 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I'll need to pass them along to
her anyway
(06/14/2009 02:06:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, we will come back to your
stuff
(06/14/2009 02:07:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok
(06/14/2009 02:07:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, now you have all the info ...
give us a date to complete 2008 
(06/14/2009 02:07:49 PM) tsunam_: NeddySeagoon: I'll have it done within the
next 2 weeks
(06/14/2009 02:07:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok
(06/14/2009 02:08:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: and 2009 for the Aug meeting ?   thats 6
weeks after the FY end ?
(06/14/2009 02:08:38 PM) tsunam_: *nods*
(06/14/2009 02:09:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, thats FY 2008 to robbat2 for
review in two weeks and presented to the meeting in July ?
(06/14/2009 02:09:19 PM) tsunam_: yep
(06/14/2009 02:09:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: Fine.
(06/14/2009 02:09:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: back to  Certified Public Accountant -
quantumsummers
(06/14/2009 02:10:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: Hmm - must still be unloading his car
(06/14/2009 02:10:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: Trustees and Foundation Article For the
News Feed (was GMN)
(06/14/2009 02:10:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: hey there, so tsunam_ I'm gonna
need all that financial data to complete the f1023 for for 501c3, I will go
thru the data + reports with the CPA when I get it
(06/14/2009 02:11:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: I'll admit to slacking on this one. I
have a link from fmccor 
(06/14/2009 02:11:06 PM) tsunam_: quantumsummers: sure
(06/14/2009 02:11:12 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I'd say I'm about 75% thru the
form otherwise
(06/14/2009 02:11:27 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: can have it to everyone after I
get the fin data
(06/14/2009 02:11:38 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sorry its taken me more time
than I thought
(06/14/2009 02:11:44 PM) tsunam_: quantumsummers: again right now its just
paypal related. Hopefully next week I should have ing related funds (netbank)
as well as much as I can, which is "this is the total in that account"
(06/14/2009 02:12:04 PM) tsunam_: quantumsummers: I assume you need the
netbank/ing numbers as well?
(06/14/2009 02:12:09 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: righto, nothing fancy id needed
for the cpa, that sounds great
(06/14/2009 02:12:16 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: s/id/is
(06/14/2009 02:12:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, yes please ... I'd like
to know what I'm getting into as I'm not familiar with the finer points of US
law 
(06/14/2009 02:12:59 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: I will post it
around, we'll need to vote on it, perhaps via an "emergency" meeting or
whatever (note this is not an emergency)
(06/14/2009 02:13:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, I don't want to get
extradited. I like here :)
(06/14/2009 02:13:36 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, Don't need a a meeting to vite,
I think.
(06/14/2009 02:13:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: We can vote in email
(06/14/2009 02:13:51 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: its a huge form & I'm
assembling all the doc in the checklist as well which will include financial
statements
(06/14/2009 02:13:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: that'll work
(06/14/2009 02:14:14 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(06/14/2009 02:14:16 PM) NeddySeagoon: As long as we have an audit trail
(06/14/2009 02:14:37 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sounds like we will
(06/14/2009 02:15:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, is that you done for the
CPA or did you just sneak another agenda item in ?
(06/14/2009 02:15:25 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: we have to file the so-called
schedule E since we did ont file for 501c3 in 27 months from incorp
(06/14/2009 02:15:42 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: CPA is assisting me, so it is
relevant
(06/14/2009 02:15:46 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: (to me :D )
(06/14/2009 02:16:02 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, done I think, unless anyone
has questions
(06/14/2009 02:16:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, ok, you want to do the
CPA update
(06/14/2009 02:16:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok ... next Send friendly cease and
desist emails to copyright infringers - quantumsummers
(06/14/2009 02:16:59 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sure, CPA will review
financials for inclusion in f1023 for 501c3 when ready as well as the form
(06/14/2009 02:17:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: re C&D
(06/14/2009 02:17:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: sorry
(06/14/2009 02:17:14 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: its ok, that was it
(06/14/2009 02:17:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: next Send friendly cease and desist
emails to copyright infringers - quantumsummers
(06/14/2009 02:17:37 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: so, I wrote all this code to
make it easy to email the individual IP infringers
(06/14/2009 02:17:51 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: then I set about gathering
email addys from cafepress, 
(06/14/2009 02:17:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: did you test it :)
(06/14/2009 02:17:57 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: they do not display them
(06/14/2009 02:18:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I found a procedure for IP
infringement 
(06/14/2009 02:18:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: take it up with cafepress directly. 
explain we want to be friendly
(06/14/2009 02:18:43 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: so I have emailed the people at
cafepress regarding a long list of every item that I could find that infringes
(06/14/2009 02:18:46 PM) robbat2: brb, cat emergency
(06/14/2009 02:19:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: thus its "in the pipe"
(06/14/2009 02:19:19 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: heard back & they are "looking
into the matter"
(06/14/2009 02:19:40 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: nothing since, its been a week
or so, if I do not hear from them on Monday I will email again
(06/14/2009 02:19:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok.  No need to stay on cafepress .... 
IP applies everywhere in the USA for us anyway
(06/14/2009 02:20:24 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: well right, but tracking all
that down is no easy task. cafe press is a good place to start, it seems.
(06/14/2009 02:20:24 PM) NeddySeagoon: Sounds good. We can continue this next
meeting now its moving
(06/14/2009 02:20:37 PM) fmccor: robbat2, Cats take precedent over almost
ererything else (except for my pythons, of course.)
(06/14/2009 02:20:53 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, I will report on said
action at that point, unless something demands the boards attention
(06/14/2009 02:20:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: yep.  I was wondering if we should keep
an eye on Europe too as the e.V. is not very active
(06/14/2009 02:21:18 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: that is a good question, we
need to get that situation buttoned up
(06/14/2009 02:21:47 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: since we do not own the TM in
EU, it might prove difficult to operate as protectors
(06/14/2009 02:21:53 PM) ***fmccor thinks e.V., actice or not, is a plus for us.
(06/14/2009 02:22:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: We can keep an eye on whats happening but
we cannot enforce a copyright we don't own
(06/14/2009 02:22:15 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: unless they appoint us as proxy
for their board
(06/14/2009 02:22:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: We can poke the e.V. though
(06/14/2009 02:22:40 PM) NeddySeagoon: that works too
(06/14/2009 02:23:03 PM) fmccor: quantumsummers, I think we metioned that once,
or perhaps I only dreamed it?
(06/14/2009 02:23:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: Your last one quantumsummers 
(06/14/2009 02:23:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: Foundation Knowledge Management Needs -
quantumsummers
(06/14/2009 02:23:42 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: re KM: I have all the initial
functionality in place, finishing theming atm
(06/14/2009 02:24:06 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will host it on my infra, so
it will be easy for me to debug if any issues occur
(06/14/2009 02:24:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: progress ... that what was needed.  Ok
wrt hosting
(06/14/2009 02:24:41 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok. I can get you guys into the
basic iface next week if you want
(06/14/2009 02:25:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: ok.  It will be good to play with
(06/14/2009 02:25:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will then need to write some
custom report modules as we discover new needs
(06/14/2009 02:25:04 PM) robbat2: back. cat made an escape attempt
(06/14/2009 02:25:17 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can haz FREEDOM!?!
(06/14/2009 02:25:31 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair has 2 cats
(06/14/2009 02:25:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: cat ok robbat2 
(06/14/2009 02:25:52 PM) robbat2: yeah
(06/14/2009 02:26:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: very much like garfield &
nermal, though not in appearance
(06/14/2009 02:26:05 PM) ***fmccor has 3 pythons. :)
(06/14/2009 02:26:11 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yikes
(06/14/2009 02:26:21 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ride then snake
(06/14/2009 02:26:22 PM) ***NeddySeagoon has a wife and son
(06/14/2009 02:26:25 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: :)
(06/14/2009 02:26:30 PM) tsunam_: heh
(06/14/2009 02:26:32 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair has wife
(06/14/2009 02:26:34 PM) NeddySeagoon: Trustees and Foundation Article For the
News Feed (was GMN)
(06/14/2009 02:26:57 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: robbat2: is that thing public
yet?
(06/14/2009 02:27:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, sent me a link ... I failed due
to real life
(06/14/2009 02:27:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: new blag that is
(06/14/2009 02:27:14 PM) fmccor: Done, execpt for update following this meeting.
(06/14/2009 02:27:17 PM) robbat2: i'm not sure if nightmorph has launched it
(06/14/2009 02:27:36 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: ok, I need to send my bio
still. I will do that after the meeting
(06/14/2009 02:27:45 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: or suring, if time permits
(06/14/2009 02:27:53 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: *during
(06/14/2009 02:28:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, tsunam_ quantumsummers ... you
going to do something ?
(06/14/2009 02:28:20 PM) robbat2: if I get time, i'll see about a writeup for me
(06/14/2009 02:28:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will, kick me for slacking on
that
(06/14/2009 02:28:41 PM) tsunam_: x2 to robbat2's comment
(06/14/2009 02:29:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: It will be a couple of months before I
get much time.  I have a new job, so I'm winding down the old one ..
(06/14/2009 02:29:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, you are going to be busy on the
accounts ... that must come first
(06/14/2009 02:29:46 PM) tsunam_: *nods*
(06/14/2009 02:29:55 PM) tsunam_: been busy with that stuff for a while :(
(06/14/2009 02:30:10 PM) fmccor: tsunam_, Your picture says it all. :)
(06/14/2009 02:30:15 PM) NeddySeagoon: yeah.
(06/14/2009 02:30:17 PM) tsunam_: hah
(06/14/2009 02:30:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: 3. Actions From Previous Meetings on hold
for one or more actions above ...
(06/14/2009 02:30:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: Working with Gentoo e.V. - fmccor (On
hold for Feb/Mar Gentoo e.V. meeting)
(06/14/2009 02:30:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: This is holding up all the rest un this
section
(06/14/2009 02:31:10 PM) fmccor: Haven't heard from e.V, and I prefer that they
keei the copywritht.
(06/14/2009 02:31:23 PM) fmccor: ^eei^eep
(06/14/2009 02:31:47 PM) fmccor: ^tht^ght^
(06/14/2009 02:31:57 PM) tsunam_: ...
(06/14/2009 02:32:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: It makes things easier but I don't want
it to die of neglect, like the Foundation almost did
(06/14/2009 02:32:34 PM) fmccor: No, I,m still on it.
(06/14/2009 02:32:45 PM) NeddySeagoon: It will be much more difficult to pick up
the pieces in Germany
(06/14/2009 02:33:35 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, what are you doing and when are
you going to do it by?
(06/14/2009 02:33:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: It must be difficult if the e.V don't
respond
(06/14/2009 02:34:34 PM) fmccor: All I can do is ask dertobi123 for progress.  I
can't give a date bacause it's not in my control.
(06/14/2009 02:35:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: Its not in dertobi123s control either. 
The e.V. board needs to meet
(06/14/2009 02:35:33 PM) fmccor: That's out of my control too.
(06/14/2009 02:35:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, do they have bylaws like we do
that can be used to force a meeting ?
(06/14/2009 02:36:15 PM) fmccor: They have bylaws.  I'll have to read them again
to answer that.
(06/14/2009 02:36:49 PM) fmccor: They are a German corporation.
(06/14/2009 02:37:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: I would like to see the e.V survive, but
it needs to be pushed a little 
(06/14/2009 02:37:16 PM) ***dertobi123 sighs
(06/14/2009 02:37:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: I don't read German at all
(06/14/2009 02:37:27 PM) dertobi123: just saw the hilight
(06/14/2009 02:37:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, welcome ... care to say a few
words ?
(06/14/2009 02:37:49 PM) ***fmccor does,  but hasn't looked at them for a while.
(06/14/2009 02:38:24 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: i sent the mail i promised to
sent out to our members (and board, too), feedback is kinda like zero
(06/14/2009 02:39:10 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, I guessed that.  I suspect
that he e.V is going through what the Foundation went through
(06/14/2009 02:39:27 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: yeah :(
(06/14/2009 02:39:37 PM) fmccor: dertobi123, From my point of view, strictly
mine, I'd prefer e.V to keep the trademarks(s) and work wit us.
(06/14/2009 02:39:50 PM) dertobi123: though we're making some (small) progress
on other things
(06/14/2009 02:40:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, do you have any suggestions
about how the Foundation can help the e.V.
(06/14/2009 02:40:00 PM) fmccor: ^wit^witt^
(06/14/2009 02:40:24 PM) fmccor: ^witt^with^ :)
(06/14/2009 02:41:01 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: not really. we finally need
to hold our general meeting (somewhen after the summer holidays probably) and
elect a new board.
(06/14/2009 02:41:30 PM) tsunam_: dertobi123: which holidays...germany has a
crap ton of them all the time :-P
(06/14/2009 02:41:50 PM) dertobi123: i'm trying to find other people who i
personally think might help as board members, but well ... i'm doing that for
quite some time now and wasn't that successful yet :/
(06/14/2009 02:42:04 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, can you estimate a month ?  
So we can update our agenda please
(06/14/2009 02:42:18 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: late september or october
(06/14/2009 02:42:18 PM) fmccor: dertobi123, Is there any way I can participate? 
My German is still functional but not fluent any more.
(06/14/2009 02:42:41 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: maybe some weeks earlier, but
the main problem isn't the meeting but to find a new board
(06/14/2009 02:43:41 PM) dertobi123: fmccor: we need to find people interested
in keeping the e.v. alive and doing work. not sure if someone from the states
can help with that. but if there's anything you could with i'll contact you
(06/14/2009 02:43:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, ok, we will not discuss the
topic until October then.  Meanwhile, whe have two European orgainations that
have applied to us for licencing. they should have applied to the e.V.  Is
there anything that can be done to help them ? 
(06/14/2009 02:45:01 PM) fmccor: dertobi123, Thank you.
(06/14/2009 02:45:26 PM) dertobi123: NeddySeagoon: fwd their requests please, as
long as they're not doing anything commercial we don't have a problem with
that. if else it needs to be discussed.
(06/14/2009 02:45:56 PM) dertobi123: besides fmccor being in favor of us keeping
the trademark (correct), where do the other ones stand?
(06/14/2009 02:45:57 PM) fmccor: (das ist, Danke.)
(06/14/2009 02:46:03 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, ok.  I'll forward them to you
and send them an update with whats happening
(06/14/2009 02:46:10 PM) dertobi123: ok
(06/14/2009 02:46:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, thanks for the update
(06/14/2009 02:46:51 PM) dertobi123: i'll mail -core/-project somewhen before
the general meeting, maybe we find some people interested in helping us
(06/14/2009 02:46:54 PM) dertobi123: *shrugs*
(06/14/2009 02:47:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: dertobi123, I would like to see a working
e.V. as it would be good to have seperate orgainisation in Europe and the USA
(06/14/2009 02:47:10 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: bonsaikitten: < might help
(06/14/2009 02:47:25 PM) bonsaikitten: what!
(06/14/2009 02:47:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: bonsaikitten: help gentoo ev
(06/14/2009 02:47:53 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I know ya wanna
(06/14/2009 02:47:55 PM) fmccor: dertobi123, I'm interested and will be
avaliable.  And yes, partick is a good choice.
(06/14/2009 02:48:20 PM) fmccor: ^rt^tr^
(06/14/2009 02:48:51 PM) NeddySeagoon: Lets get back to our meeting
(06/14/2009 02:48:53 PM) fmccor: bonsaikitten, sorry to mangle your name.  My
typing is generally bad.
(06/14/2009 02:49:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: # Licencing For emtom.cz - quantumsummers
(On hold for Feb/Mar Gentoo e.V meeting)
(06/14/2009 02:49:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: # Licencing For Projektfarm GmbH -
quantumsummers (On Hold for Feb/Mar Gentoo e.V meeting)  
(06/14/2009 02:49:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: is covered
(06/14/2009 02:49:26 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: :)
(06/14/2009 02:49:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: Fix name and address on IPR/trademark
documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees - fmccor
(06/14/2009 02:50:57 PM) ***quantumsummers|Corsair thought that the above was
completed
(06/14/2009 02:51:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, ^
(06/14/2009 02:51:50 PM) fmccor: All a mess.  I don't know what's happened, and
I don't think we have a lawyer looking at it.
(06/14/2009 02:52:08 PM) fmccor: Now, i can do forms, if I can find them.
(06/14/2009 02:52:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: what happened ?   It was one of the Pro
Bono firms looking at it and the $200 was for fees
(06/14/2009 02:53:03 PM) fmccor: I want to move everything to Boston, but since
we are represented pro bono, we are not first priority,
(06/14/2009 02:53:13 PM) tsunam_: *nods8
(06/14/2009 02:53:31 PM) tsunam_: is there a reason for wanting to move
everything to the boston group?
(06/14/2009 02:53:32 PM) NeddySeagoon: I understand.   Why the move though ?
(06/14/2009 02:53:39 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, I know what happened, but it is a
private communication.
(06/14/2009 02:53:59 PM) NeddySeagoon: I respect that
(06/14/2009 02:54:23 PM) fmccor: I *think* the west coast firm is in some
trouble, but that is pure speculation.
(06/14/2009 02:54:59 PM) fmccor: For moving?  Yes, it's more efficient.
(06/14/2009 02:55:08 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sounds good to me
(06/14/2009 02:55:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: Is Boston interested in the work ?
(06/14/2009 02:55:41 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will need to talk with them
once we have our temp 501c3 letter, it will make them happy to write off some
of the work
(06/14/2009 02:55:52 PM) fmccor: They were.  But that's before our economy
tanked.
(06/14/2009 02:56:04 PM) tsunam_: *nods*
(06/14/2009 02:56:12 PM) tsunam_: yes the 501c3 would make them happy
(06/14/2009 02:57:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, See what you can find out from
both firms ... that you can share with the rest of us so we can make an
informed decision.  I don't want us to act on speculation
(06/14/2009 02:57:12 PM) fmccor: Problem is they are pro bono.  If we paid them,
there would be no problem.  Personally, I think asking for free representation
is a loser, but no one has ever agreed with me.
(06/14/2009 02:57:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: Ask about fees too.  Maybe in bad times
we would get a good price ?
(06/14/2009 02:57:51 PM) tsunam_: fmccor: even having a "retention" lawyer is
not cheap
(06/14/2009 02:58:02 PM) fmccor: NeddySeagoon, Will do.  I've been holding off
just to see what west coast would say.
(06/14/2009 02:58:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, its all about getting the
information we need to make a decsion.  Be it fee paying, moving ... whatever
(06/14/2009 02:59:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: 4 Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees 
(06/14/2009 02:59:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: 253491 Gentoo Store - Add Case stickers,
badges ...
(06/14/2009 03:00:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: This is open to discuss rearranging the
link to the gentoo store. 
(06/14/2009 03:00:29 PM) fmccor: We want to move --- just to consolidate if
nothing else.  Boston is waiting to hear from Kazakhstan, and no one has
control over that.  (Bug 264682)
(06/14/2009 03:00:30 PM) NeddySeagoon: All our licenced vendors should have a
link here
(06/14/2009 03:00:30 PM) Willikins:
https://bugs.gentoo.org/264682 "www.linuxcenter.kz wish to be our vendors in
Kazakhstan"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; fmccor@g.o:trustees@g.o
(06/14/2009 03:01:41 PM) NeddySeagoon: I have nothing against the
move/consolidation as long as we don't lose any skills in the process
(06/14/2009 03:02:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, how do we get a Gentoo Stores
page, in place of a single link ? 
(06/14/2009 03:02:53 PM) robbat2: easy enough
(06/14/2009 03:03:09 PM) NeddySeagoon: Who has access besides you ?
(06/14/2009 03:03:13 PM) robbat2: i'll put it at /main/en/stores.xml
(06/14/2009 03:03:17 PM) robbat2: the web team
(06/14/2009 03:03:21 PM) robbat2: neysx chiefly
(06/14/2009 03:03:53 PM) robbat2:
cvsweb:!:3001:pauldv,klieber,g2boojum,neysx,solar,ramereth,fox2mike,nightmorph,robbat2,musikc,dberkholz,antarus,jmbsvicetto,ford_prefect
(06/14/2009 03:04:05 PM) NeddySeagoon: So we would have to raise a bug to get it
changed ?
(06/14/2009 03:04:29 PM) robbat2: i can just give somebody else amongst the
trustees perms
(06/14/2009 03:04:32 PM) robbat2: that has two of us then
(06/14/2009 03:04:46 PM) robbat2: you want it?
(06/14/2009 03:04:54 PM) NeddySeagoon: amd musikc is there two, she looks after
the shop
(06/14/2009 03:05:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: OK, as long as the web team is happy with
that
(06/14/2009 03:05:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: What I ahve in mind is a list of approved
vendors and an invitation to report any unapproved ones
(06/14/2009 03:06:20 PM) robbat2: ok, i'll make a simple page for the moment,
and give you perms, and you can improve it thereafter
(06/14/2009 03:06:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, tsunam_ quantumsummers  ^^  are
you ok with that ?
(06/14/2009 03:06:36 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(06/14/2009 03:06:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, works for me.
(06/14/2009 03:07:01 PM) NeddySeagoon: Do we need a vote ?
(06/14/2009 03:07:27 PM) tsunam_: sure
(06/14/2009 03:07:35 PM) tsunam_: don't believe we need one
(06/14/2009 03:07:39 PM) fmccor: Yes, again.
(06/14/2009 03:07:53 PM) NeddySeagoon: We seem to have a majority anyway.
(06/14/2009 03:08:08 PM) NeddySeagoon: 254249 gentoo.org Website Redesign
(06/14/2009 03:08:27 PM) NeddySeagoon: #254249
(06/14/2009 03:08:55 PM) NeddySeagoon: This keeps coming up but nobody wants to
do it.  Lets close it 
(06/14/2009 03:09:12 PM) NeddySeagoon: !254249
(06/14/2009 03:09:13 PM) fmccor: Works for me.
(06/14/2009 03:09:37 PM) NeddySeagoon: tsunam_, quantumsummers robbat2  ^^
(06/14/2009 03:09:47 PM) robbat2: +!
(06/14/2009 03:09:49 PM) robbat2: err
(06/14/2009 03:09:50 PM) robbat2: +1
(06/14/2009 03:09:50 PM) tsunam_: we can close it :(
(06/14/2009 03:10:18 PM) NeddySeagoon: #254588 Possible confusion over use of
the Gentoo Penguin (Quicktime Penguin) Logo
(06/14/2009 03:10:25 PM) jmbsvicetto: robbat2: I now have access to cvsweb?
(06/14/2009 03:10:38 PM) jmbsvicetto: robbat2: I wasn't aware of that
(06/14/2009 03:10:42 PM) NeddySeagoon: Did this get fixed ?  The main page
didn't use tux last time I looked
(06/14/2009 03:11:05 PM) robbat2: look at "Website tweaks bring more life and
usability to the homepage"
(06/14/2009 03:11:07 PM) robbat2: it's there still
(06/14/2009 03:11:15 PM) robbat2: assuming that's the one people were talking
about
(06/14/2009 03:11:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: yep, its still wrong.  We are moving to
the kernel logo
(06/14/2009 03:12:31 PM) NeddySeagoon: The new image was on the bug ... so how
do we throw the switch and who do we poke ?
(06/14/2009 03:15:25 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, tsunam_ quantumsummers fmccor 
^^^
(06/14/2009 03:15:39 PM) tsunam_: we need to change it so *shrugs*
(06/14/2009 03:15:39 PM) robbat2: one sec, i'm just finishing the stores.xml
(06/14/2009 03:16:05 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: the image needs to change
(06/14/2009 03:16:35 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I have no opinion on the web
redesign bug, as I am moving forward on something alone it appears
(06/14/2009 03:16:44 PM) NeddySeagoon: Who takes the the work on the bug and
applies it to the website ?
(06/14/2009 03:16:50 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I'll finish it & submit for
comments
(06/14/2009 03:17:02 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: no idea who does that
(06/14/2009 03:17:04 PM) robbat2: stores.xml will go live on the next web update
pass
(06/14/2009 03:17:08 PM) tsunam_: k
(06/14/2009 03:17:09 PM) robbat2: i'll do the image change in a moment too
(06/14/2009 03:17:20 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, I don't think the web
redesign is related to what you are doing
(06/14/2009 03:17:20 PM) robbat2: Willikins, bug 254588 
(06/14/2009 03:17:23 PM) Willikins: robbat2:
https://bugs.gentoo.org/254588 "Possible confusion over use of the Gentoo
Penguin (Quicktime Penguin) Logo"; Documentation, Other documents; REOP;
fmccor@g.o:trustees@g.o
(06/14/2009 03:17:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, thanks
(06/14/2009 03:19:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: bug 264682 linuxcenter.kz wish to be our
vendors in Kazakhstan 
(06/14/2009 03:19:02 PM) Willikins: NeddySeagoon:
https://bugs.gentoo.org/264682 "www.linuxcenter.kz wish to be our vendors in
Kazakhstan"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; fmccor@g.o:trustees@g.o
(06/14/2009 03:19:48 PM) fmccor: Let's just bless them.  They are going to do it
whatever we say, and the had the courtesy to ask.
(06/14/2009 03:20:19 PM) NeddySeagoon: OK,  In view of lawyer termoil, I agree
(06/14/2009 03:20:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: me too
(06/14/2009 03:20:36 PM) tsunam_: k
(06/14/2009 03:20:48 PM) fmccor: To register the trademarks will be very
expensive, if the local lawyers even respond at all.
(06/14/2009 03:20:57 PM) NeddySeagoon: quantumsummers, you want to write to them
please
(06/14/2009 03:21:07 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: NeddySeagoon: can do
(06/14/2009 03:21:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, lets ask them if they can
reccomend a law firm 
(06/14/2009 03:22:28 PM) robbat2: penguin icon changed
(06/14/2009 03:22:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I can add that to the letter I
send
(06/14/2009 03:22:33 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: thanks robbat2
(06/14/2009 03:22:49 PM) fmccor: Can do.  Please prod me later if I don'd do
anything.  (Headache is worse, and I'm fading.)
(06/14/2009 03:22:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: thanks robbat2 
(06/14/2009 03:23:20 PM) robbat2: is that all of the bugs done?
(06/14/2009 03:23:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yesir
(06/14/2009 03:23:33 PM) NeddySeagoon: I propose we skip items 5-9 on the agenda
as its been a long meeting and there is nothing urgent there
(06/14/2009 03:23:33 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(06/14/2009 03:23:45 PM) robbat2: 8/9 we can do, should just be votes?
(06/14/2009 03:24:01 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I agree, lets do 8 & 9
(06/14/2009 03:24:09 PM) robbat2: #
(06/14/2009 03:24:09 PM) robbat2:     *
(06/14/2009 03:24:09 PM) robbat2:           o
(06/14/2009 03:24:09 PM) robbat2: # Appoint Roy Bamford as Chairman of the
Gentoo Linux Foundation Inc
(06/14/2009 03:24:09 PM) robbat2: # Appoint Ferris McCormick as Vice-Chairman of
the Gentoo Linux Foundation Inc
(06/14/2009 03:24:19 PM) robbat2: oops, sorry about the weird header
(06/14/2009 03:24:23 PM) fmccor: No, let's just do * & 9.  It;s pure
administrative, and we need to do it.
(06/14/2009 03:24:29 PM) NeddySeagoon: robbat2, if you want.  It make it easy to
split the offices and trustee positions later if we ant to
(06/14/2009 03:24:37 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: motion: appoint Roy chair &
Ferris Vice-Chair
(06/14/2009 03:24:46 PM) NeddySeagoon: secpnded
(06/14/2009 03:24:50 PM) NeddySeagoon: seconded
(06/14/2009 03:24:54 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Votes?
(06/14/2009 03:24:56 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: yes
(06/14/2009 03:24:59 PM) robbat2: aye
(06/14/2009 03:25:00 PM) NeddySeagoon: yes
(06/14/2009 03:25:01 PM) fmccor: Yes.
(06/14/2009 03:25:11 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: tsunam_: ^?
(06/14/2009 03:25:16 PM) tsunam_: yep
(06/14/2009 03:25:22 PM) NeddySeagoon: carried
(06/14/2009 03:25:31 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: Congrats, majority approve Roy
& Ferris as all round great fellas
(06/14/2009 03:25:36 PM) NeddySeagoon: Date of Next Meeting - 12th July 2009
(06/14/2009 03:25:38 PM) NeddySeagoon: hehe
(06/14/2009 03:25:49 PM) robbat2: i may be late or absent, depends on my flight
to Montreal
(06/14/2009 03:25:50 PM) ***fmccor will take that out of his write-up, then.
(06/14/2009 03:25:55 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: lol
(06/14/2009 03:26:07 PM) NeddySeagoon: thats from our Calendar
(06/14/2009 03:26:15 PM) ***fmccor loves Montreal
(06/14/2009 03:26:29 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: I will be on a place at that
time, going from Cali, but I may be able to make some of the meeting
(06/14/2009 03:26:29 PM) robbat2: in theory I'll be landing in the airport
around 1855UTC
(06/14/2009 03:26:52 PM) NeddySeagoon: Should we change the date/time then ?
(06/14/2009 03:26:59 PM) tsunam_: hmm might be a good idea to have it another
day then with 2 memebers traveling
(06/14/2009 03:27:14 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sorry for the trouble, my wife
is in a wedding
(06/14/2009 03:27:16 PM) fmccor: Move it back a week if it helps.
(06/14/2009 03:27:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: I can do 1900 UTC any day
(06/14/2009 03:27:24 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: that'll work well
(06/14/2009 03:27:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: the next sunday that is
(06/14/2009 03:27:39 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: could try Monday as well
(06/14/2009 03:27:45 PM) robbat2: how's the day before?
(06/14/2009 03:27:49 PM) NeddySeagoon: fmccor, you mean 5th or 19th >
(06/14/2009 03:27:59 PM) fmccor: 19th
(06/14/2009 03:28:02 PM) tsunam_: I'd prefer the 19th
(06/14/2009 03:28:04 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: robbat2: My net access may be
spotty
(06/14/2009 03:28:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: I can do the 19th
(06/14/2009 03:28:22 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: 19th is good here
(06/14/2009 03:28:25 PM) robbat2: 19th +1 for me
(06/14/2009 03:28:32 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: sold
(06/14/2009 03:28:47 PM) NeddySeagoon: Ok, its the 19th at 1900UTC
(06/14/2009 03:29:02 PM) NeddySeagoon: Any other business ?
(06/14/2009 03:29:14 PM) robbat2: none since we ran overtime already
(06/14/2009 03:29:21 PM) NeddySeagoon: seems fair
(06/14/2009 03:29:26 PM) NeddySeagoon: Open Floor ...
(06/14/2009 03:29:30 PM) quantumsummers|Corsair: it might be good to do a
training sometime on the KM stuff, but I'll email around
(06/14/2009 03:29:55 PM) ***NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
