Dec 13 14:23:20 <quantumsummers>	1. Roll Call
Dec 13 14:23:24 <robbat2|na>	here
Dec 13 14:23:33 <dabbott>	here
Dec 13 14:23:44 <quantumsummers>	2. Meeting Logging - robbat2|na
Dec 13 14:23:50 <robbat2|na>	it's logging as usual
Dec 13 14:23:58 <quantumsummers>	good
Dec 13 14:24:06 <quantumsummers>	3. OB
Dec 13 14:24:22 <quantumsummers>	I can report on some of htis
Dec 13 14:24:47 <quantumsummers>	Main thing is NM registration is done
Dec 13 14:24:49 <quantumsummers>	http://www.nmprc.state.nm.us/cgi-bin/prcdtl.cgi?2463313+GENTOO+FOUNDATION+INC//
Dec 13 14:24:58 <quantumsummers>	Good Standing:   In GOOD STANDING through 11/15/2010
Dec 13 14:25:07 <dabbott>	nice :)
Dec 13 14:25:31 <robbat2|na>	PRINCIPAL ADDRESS (Outside New Mexico)
Dec 13 14:25:31 <robbat2|na>	MANASSA PARK VIRGINIA 
Dec 13 14:25:37 <robbat2|na>	so not done :-9
Dec 13 14:26:11 <quantumsummers>	ah geez
Dec 13 14:26:14 <robbat2|na>	also, david and myself aren't on there
Dec 13 14:26:38 <quantumsummers>	I wonder if the form was submitted correctly or what
Dec 13 14:26:45 <quantumsummers>	could be clerical error
Dec 13 14:27:07 <quantumsummers>	regardless, perhaps we should file a bug to keep this in our minds until its fixed
Dec 13 14:27:18 <robbat2|na>	one sec, i'll file
Dec 13 14:27:27 <quantumsummers>	as it needs to be corrected, certainly
Dec 13 14:30:02 <robbat2|na>	bug 296766 done
Dec 13 14:30:06 <Willikins>	robbat2|na: https://bugs.gentoo.org/296766 "Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; NEW; robbat2@g.o:trustees@g.o
Dec 13 14:30:13 <quantumsummers>	thanks
Dec 13 14:30:15 <quantumsummers>	this reminds me, I have been looking into remote mail management & digitization services. This might be really helpful for us.
Dec 13 14:30:50 <quantumsummers>	basically, a service that scans the mail (-junk) & emails it along
Dec 13 14:32:36 <quantumsummers>	Also, it appears that the foundation finances are in good shape. FY 2010 Q1
Dec 13 14:32:48 <quantumsummers>	http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/finances/2010q1.xml
Dec 13 14:33:45 <quantumsummers>	Beyond that, I have no more info regarding tsunam's portion
Dec 13 14:33:59 <quantumsummers>	To continue,
Dec 13 14:34:48 <antarus|wtf>	are the expenditures enumerated anywhere?
Dec 13 14:35:25 <quantumsummers>	antarus|wtf: at present, I do not think so.
Dec 13 14:35:44 *	NeddySeagoon shows up ... and apologies for his late arrival
Dec 13 14:36:10 *	quantumsummers welcomes NeddySeagoon :)
Dec 13 14:36:54 <quantumsummers>	 Regarding SFLC: work is progressing, and we will soon need to complete a general budget estimate, as well as the Foundation board member bio statements
Dec 13 14:37:27 <NeddySeagoon>	whats in the bio statements ?
Dec 13 14:37:53 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: It is much like we have on file for you already.
Dec 13 14:38:00 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Dec 13 14:38:14 <quantumsummers>	We will need them for myself, dabbott, robbat2|na, and tsunam
Dec 13 14:38:28 <quantumsummers>	just a short paragraph is fine
Dec 13 14:38:48 <quantumsummers>	for the budget, robbat2|na can you provide an estimate on infra?
Dec 13 14:39:17 <robbat2|na>	we previously approved $2k iirc as the default amount
Dec 13 14:39:37 <quantumsummers>	**note: this is not a set-in-stone budget, it can reflect current expenditures as well as grow estimates
Dec 13 14:39:54 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: yes, so that is a good place to start
Dec 13 14:40:21 <quantumsummers>	we should also look at what we would like to do & create budget items for these things ... like embedded, etc, etc
Dec 13 14:41:52 <quantumsummers>	So, other than that, we are using info from the g.o site to construct the narrative for our application.
Dec 13 14:42:39 <robbat2|na>	infra expenditure for last year was sub $300, of which <$100 came from our funds
Dec 13 14:43:22 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, having not seen this sort of thing before are you able to scan it and circulate it so far ?   I understand its not finished
Dec 13 14:44:52 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: its basically a fillable pdf file, and accompanying instructions. SFLC is handling the actual form, we need only pass them the info.
Dec 13 14:45:45 <quantumsummers>	I can ask for a copy of what we have, though I am not sure if they have started filling things out
Dec 13 14:45:55 <quantumsummers>	or have just taken notes, etc
Dec 13 14:46:21 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, a link to the blank form and instructions would be good
Dec 13 14:46:33 <quantumsummers>	http://www.irs.gov/instructions/i1023/index.html
Dec 13 14:46:40 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Dec 13 14:46:55 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: I wrote some things about it here: http://dev.gentoo.org/~quantumsummers/manifesto_2009.html
Dec 13 14:47:00 <quantumsummers>	Goal 1
Dec 13 14:47:41 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, thanks - I read it later.  I think we may be straying from the agenda
Dec 13 14:47:42 <quantumsummers>	ok. so I will move on to CPA if everyone is ready.
Dec 13 14:48:32 <quantumsummers>	I have contacted & requested an estimate from the CPA used by the SFLC, whom they recommended. Also I have requested same from the CPA local to me.
Dec 13 14:49:01 <NeddySeagoon>	sounds good
Dec 13 14:49:11 <quantumsummers>	I believe I will see them before the holiday, & present them to you at that time.
Dec 13 14:49:35 <dabbott>	very well
Dec 13 14:49:48 <quantumsummers>	I had them separate the estimate into two sections
Dec 13 14:49:54 <quantumsummers>	one for tax preparation
Dec 13 14:50:06 <quantumsummers>	and another for book keeping.
Dec 13 14:50:29 <quantumsummers>	the book keeping thing will be nice as things grow, but not completely necessary at this time
Dec 13 14:50:36 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Dec 13 14:51:08 <quantumsummers>	any questions on CPA?
Dec 13 14:51:16 <NeddySeagoon>	not from me
Dec 13 14:51:24 <dabbott>	none here, you have it covered
Dec 13 14:51:51 <quantumsummers>	next, KM
Dec 13 14:52:06 <robbat2|na>	not a question on CPA, but merely a comment that we not get locked into some software that we can't read the files from
Dec 13 14:52:27 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: I agree completely.
Dec 13 14:54:35 <quantumsummers>	KM - I am beating my head against it at the moment.
Dec 13 14:55:30 <quantumsummers>	Membership Applications Status (See 6.)
Dec 13 14:55:49 <quantumsummers>	Looks like we will get to that shortly. 
Dec 13 14:56:25 <quantumsummers>	Donation and Vendor Advertising - robbat2|na
Dec 13 14:57:27 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, refesh the page http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes09/2009/200912_trustees_agenda.xml
Dec 13 14:57:34 <tsunam>	morning
Dec 13 14:57:42 <quantumsummers>	howdy tsunam
Dec 13 14:58:01 <tsunam>	apparetly I thought noon...and it started at 11 =/
Dec 13 14:58:07 <tsunam>	my appolgies for being late
Dec 13 14:58:27 <quantumsummers>	no worries tsunam, glad you arrived :)
Dec 13 14:58:35 <antarus|wtf>	it started late anyhow ;)
Dec 13 14:58:38 <quantumsummers>	would you like to take a moment to read up?
Dec 13 14:58:42 <quantumsummers>	tsunam ^
Dec 13 14:59:26 <tsunam>	sure
Dec 13 14:59:46 <quantumsummers>	Before we move on, I was apparently working off an old version of the agenda
Dec 13 15:00:15 <tsunam>	about filings for new mexico
Dec 13 15:00:23 <tsunam>	I only filed the annual required
Dec 13 15:00:33 <tsunam>	I've not submitted a change form yet
Dec 13 15:00:43 <tsunam>	which is why there's been no changes
Dec 13 15:00:49 <tsunam>	the annual is NOT used for changes
Dec 13 15:00:55 <robbat2|na>	sorry, was afk with phone call
Dec 13 15:01:00 <tsunam>	same form..just a different checkbox
Dec 13 15:01:00 <robbat2|na>	ringing off the hook today
Dec 13 15:01:37 <quantumsummers>	tsunam: noted. when do you anticipate sending the change form?
Dec 13 15:02:05 <tsunam>	best would probably be after the new year. I need to see if I need to do the fax thing again where I need another officer's signature for the updates
Dec 13 15:02:08 <tsunam>	its likely
Dec 13 15:02:21 <quantumsummers>	ok. please let me know if I can assist
Dec 13 15:02:24 <tsunam>	k
Dec 13 15:02:38 <tsunam>	any other things I'm involved in that need to be discussed?
Dec 13 15:02:55 <robbat2|na>	tsunam, just a request from antarus for more detail in the expeditures breakdown
Dec 13 15:03:22 <tsunam>	robbat2|na: so more categories when it comes to the annual reports then?
Dec 13 15:03:29 <tsunam>	antarus|wtf: ^^^
Dec 13 15:03:45 <quantumsummers>	tsunam: we need an annual budget estimate for our 1023 application
Dec 13 15:03:50 <tsunam>	k
Dec 13 15:03:57 <tsunam>	quantumsummers: it can be a rough estimate?
Dec 13 15:04:05 <jmbsvicetto>	tsunam: any reason for the quarter income from the store to be 0?
Dec 13 15:04:19 <antarus|wtf>	tsunam: ah, I was not necessarily requesting anything
Dec 13 15:04:19 <tsunam>	jmbsvicetto: I've not worked with christina to have a check sent over
Dec 13 15:04:27 <robbat2|na>	in the quarterly, can we just have line items for each of the expenditures? it shouldn't really be more than 5 items each quarter from what i've seen
Dec 13 15:04:30 <antarus|wtf>	(I know what you spent money on)
Dec 13 15:04:50 <antarus|wtf>	just that others might wonder
Dec 13 15:04:58 <jmbsvicetto>	tsunam: so the income isn't 0, you're just missing the value?
Dec 13 15:04:58 <tsunam>	robbat2|na: that would be possible, basically itemize our expenditures
Dec 13 15:05:06 <tsunam>	jmbsvicetto: income is minimal
Dec 13 15:05:28 <tsunam>	but yes need to get it sent over
Dec 13 15:05:34 <quantumsummers>	I will also be using your quarterly statements on the app.
Dec 13 15:05:40 <tsunam>	quantumsummers: *nods*
Dec 13 15:06:23 <tsunam>	I will make a note to itemize 2nd quarter 2010's quarterly report
Dec 13 15:06:52 <quantumsummers>	very good
Dec 13 15:07:54 <quantumsummers>	hmm, I missed something in KM - Email Record Keeping
Dec 13 15:08:01 <dabbott>	Like a ticket system, a form to keep track of Trustee emails received and the progress
Dec 13 15:08:24 <quantumsummers>	I agree we need something
Dec 13 15:08:49 <NeddySeagoon>	yeah - my filing system is a mess
Dec 13 15:09:20 <quantumsummers>	short answer to the 2nd subpoint is not: without extra effort. I think we can do something really simple here
Dec 13 15:10:42 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, what ever is easiest
Dec 13 15:11:23 <dabbott>	my problem is I get my email from different locations, the Trustee email is increasing
Dec 13 15:11:49 <quantumsummers>	what do you mean by different locations?
Dec 13 15:12:12 <dabbott>	different computers
Dec 13 15:12:38 <dabbott>	so i end up forwarding them to home
Dec 13 15:12:55 <dabbott>	its just confusing for me
Dec 13 15:13:18 <dabbott>	not very organised :)
Dec 13 15:13:30 <quantumsummers>	can you setup your computers to grab it in both places?
Dec 13 15:14:23 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: can we just put the emails in a separate DB? I was thinking something like couch
Dec 13 15:14:30 <tsunam>	dabbott: imap is your friend, instead of pop3!
Dec 13 15:14:48 <quantumsummers>	if we can easily grab the emails & store them, we can build functionality we need around that
Dec 13 15:15:17 <antarus|wtf>	archives.g.o ?
Dec 13 15:15:32 <robbat2|na>	read-only IMAP account?
Dec 13 15:15:48 <robbat2|na>	last one kinda sucks for spam reasons
Dec 13 15:16:07 <quantumsummers>	config the client to leave stuff on the server
Dec 13 15:16:38 <quantumsummers>	antarus|wtf: this is the alias mail. does that get archived now?
Dec 13 15:16:57 <robbat2|na>	yes it does
Dec 13 15:17:13 <quantumsummers>	very nice. in what form is it stored?
Dec 13 15:17:14 <robbat2|na>	since september 08
Dec 13 15:17:25 <quantumsummers>	ah, I saw that email
Dec 13 15:17:53 <quantumsummers>	the recent discussion, that is of this
Dec 13 15:19:42 <robbat2|na>	can we move along further in the agenda? next is member applications
Dec 13 15:20:05 <robbat2|na>	(i like how council has assigned time limits to their agenda items)
Dec 13 15:20:21 <quantumsummers>	'tis nice
Dec 13 15:20:35 <quantumsummers>	let get Membership stuff in #6
Dec 13 15:20:42 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: Your items please
Dec 13 15:20:48 <quantumsummers>	Meeting Minutes Need Updating
Dec 13 15:20:51 <quantumsummers>	Rotating Sidebar Progress
Dec 13 15:20:57 <robbat2|na>	"# Meeting Minutes Need Updating"
Dec 13 15:21:22 <robbat2|na>	they've been kept up to date, but i'm wondering if we should remove the duplicate and confusing /minutes/ /minutes08/ /minutes09/
Dec 13 15:21:28 <robbat2|na>	and compress them all into the new format
Dec 13 15:21:39 <robbat2|na>	http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes09/
Dec 13 15:21:40 <quantumsummers>	fine by me
Dec 13 15:21:55 <robbat2|na>	make that live at /minutes/ and populate it with all prior meetings 
Dec 13 15:22:26 <quantumsummers>	I like that idea very much
Dec 13 15:22:48 <dabbott>	robbat2|na, I can convert http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes08/index.xml
Dec 13 15:22:56 <robbat2|na>	tsunam, NeddySeagoon: any comments on that from you?
Dec 13 15:23:13 <robbat2|na>	dabbott, i made some small scripts for it, so i'll batch-do it
Dec 13 15:23:14 <tsunam>	thats fine
Dec 13 15:23:19 <quantumsummers>	might be nice to reverse the date index, as in "newest first"
Dec 13 15:23:26 <robbat2|na>	ok, i'll reverse it too
Dec 13 15:23:36 <quantumsummers>	:)
Dec 13 15:23:41 <dabbott>	:)
Dec 13 15:23:50 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, as long as its east to extend and maintain, without downloading years worth of stuff I'm happy
Dec 13 15:24:04 <NeddySeagoon>	easy*
Dec 13 15:24:47 <NeddySeagoon>	that was why I was doing it by calander years
Dec 13 15:24:48 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, it's sub 2MB, so not really an issue, but i'll have directories anyway
Dec 13 15:24:56 <robbat2|na>	underneath /minutes/
Dec 13 15:25:11 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon, it is easy to keep updated http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes09/?passthru=1
Dec 13 15:25:12 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, think abouot in 10 or 20 years time
Dec 13 15:25:42 <quantumsummers>	that will just be a really long page :D
Dec 13 15:26:04 <robbat2|na>	i think neddy is more concerned with the actual size of the /minutes/ directoriy
Dec 13 15:26:21 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, thats why I was splitting things by tears
Dec 13 15:26:25 <NeddySeagoon>	years*
Dec 13 15:27:00 <robbat2|na>	i think by then our bandwidth will be fine. the council logs have been going for longer than ours and they don't have any problems with it
Dec 13 15:27:12 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, yeah - I like to keep pages small enough to fit on the screen without scrolling
Dec 13 15:27:38 <quantumsummers>	seems that it is unlikely to grow too fast
Dec 13 15:27:41 <robbat2|na>	ok, if you've got no objections to having all the stuff in one directory (I estimate 500kb logs/year)
Dec 13 15:27:58 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, I'm fine with it
Dec 13 15:28:00 <robbat2|na>	and in the newer format for the index page, the current stuff will always be near the top anyway
Dec 13 15:28:11 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, true
Dec 13 15:28:12 <quantumsummers>	perfect
Dec 13 15:28:20 <robbat2|na>	ok, so moving on
Dec 13 15:28:22 <robbat2|na>	sidebar
Dec 13 15:29:01 <robbat2|na>	i've mucked a bit with quantumsummers's code, i need to modify it a bit more and talk to neysx about better integration, but it should work out fine once I solve why gorg keeps locking up some webnodes
Dec 13 15:29:29 <robbat2|na>	however I would like us to come up with a consistent policy/requirements for the sponsors.xml and sidebar items
Dec 13 15:29:36 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, do you have a date ?
Dec 13 15:29:43 <tsunam>	robbat2|na: I would agree
Dec 13 15:29:52 <robbat2|na>	launch over christmas
Dec 13 15:30:05 <robbat2|na>	policy in regards to style and dimensions
Dec 13 15:30:26 <NeddySeagoon>	Sounds good - thats if our members endorse the break with tradition
Dec 13 15:30:29 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: if you need any assist with the code, lemme know
Dec 13 15:31:09 <robbat2|na>	sidebar: max width 125px, max height 125px, one link and not more than 50 characters of mouseover text
Dec 13 15:31:24 <NeddySeagoon>	and no moving images
Dec 13 15:31:49 <robbat2|na>	sponsors.xml: (no well defined image sizes yet), 60-100 words of text, split between the company and what they are offering gentoo
Dec 13 15:31:50 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: noted
Dec 13 15:32:34 <robbat2|na>	that's all from me
Dec 13 15:32:47 <quantumsummers>	any questions for Robin?
Dec 13 15:32:58 <NeddySeagoon>	none from me
Dec 13 15:33:19 <dabbott>	none here
Dec 13 15:33:42 <quantumsummers>	alright, moving to David
Dec 13 15:33:43 <quantumsummers>	dabbott  	Get Gentoo | Gentoo Stores
Dec 13 15:34:05 <dabbott>	Thats done http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/where.xml
Dec 13 15:34:19 <dabbott>	http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/stores.xml
Dec 13 15:34:46 <quantumsummers>	ah, you took out the image for g10
Dec 13 15:34:54 <NeddySeagoon>	can we just take down the 2008.0 release - its almost impossible to update now
Dec 13 15:35:28 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, read carefully, we only list it for architectures that don't have any other release
Dec 13 15:35:54 <robbat2|na>	if hppa/ppc/sparc want to start making weekly media
Dec 13 15:35:57 <robbat2|na>	we can take it down
Dec 13 15:36:32 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, hmm - how do those arches update portage and python ?
Dec 13 15:37:08 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, that's not needed
Dec 13 15:37:15 <robbat2|na>	they boot using the media listed, and use a current stage
Dec 13 15:37:24 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, Ah, ok
Dec 13 15:37:33 <quantumsummers>	ok, looks fine to me, though I did like that graphic...
Dec 13 15:37:45 <quantumsummers>	Next - Links Need Updating - dabbott
Dec 13 15:37:46 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, i can update the warning to state that if you'd like?
Dec 13 15:38:04 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, thats done
Dec 13 15:38:14 <quantumsummers>	ok great
Dec 13 15:39:04 <quantumsummers>	Emails Received and Status  - dabbott
Dec 13 15:39:08 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, we still get posters on the forums saying they have installed 2008.0 and can't update ... so it would be a good idea to state its only useful as a liveDVD
Dec 13 15:39:20 <quantumsummers>	+1
Dec 13 15:40:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Unfortunately, vendors are still selling it
Dec 13 15:42:10 <dabbott>	Emails Received and Status, I will start keeping a record and status
Dec 13 15:42:40 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: can you take over the meeting for a few mins, I have to attend to something.
Dec 13 15:42:42 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, where.xml updated now
Dec 13 15:42:52 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, ok
Dec 13 15:43:15 <robbat2|na>	it's time for neddy's items anyway
Dec 13 15:44:10 <NeddySeagoon>	As I cannot scan to PDF any more ... I thought I delegated the certificate at the last meeting ?
Dec 13 15:44:45 <NeddySeagoon>	NeddySeagoon I can print and scan ... but not to PDF format.  quantumsummers what about you as secy ?
Dec 13 15:44:45 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers I can do it
Dec 13 15:44:45 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers not a problem
Dec 13 15:44:56 <NeddySeagoon>	from the last meeting ^^^
Dec 13 15:46:00 <NeddySeagoon>	hes dun a runner ... lets move on
**** ENDING LOGGING AT Sun Dec 13 15:46:13 2009

**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Sun Dec 13 15:46:13 2009

Dec 13 15:46:13 <NeddySeagoon>	4. Open Bugs 
Dec 13 15:46:13 <robbat2|na>	I can print+scan, but i've also got my graphics tablet, so I could just scan directly and avoid the paper
Dec 13 15:46:45 <NeddySeagoon>	284224 Summer of Code changes in reimbursement 
Dec 13 15:47:05 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, lets wait to see if quantumsummers has already done it
Dec 13 15:47:25 <tsunam>	^^^ donnie got back to me/us
Dec 13 15:47:44 <tsunam>	should be taken care of by the end of the month
Dec 13 15:47:49 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, did antarus|wtf 'phone you?  he was trying to fill in a form
Dec 13 15:48:01 <tsunam>	and the money should be deposited directly to our bank account
Dec 13 15:48:03 <tsunam>	no he didn't call me
Dec 13 15:48:05 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, it has to be or we lose the money
Dec 13 15:48:30 <tsunam>	NeddySeagoon: understood but I'm not dealing with google directly so I'm relying on others for that
Dec 13 15:49:01 <antarus|wtf>	tsunam: thats good news
Dec 13 15:49:12 <antarus|wtf>	tsunam: I still rather curious where this odd address is
Dec 13 15:49:12 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, ok.  antarus|wtf was trying to fix our name and address - hence his reason to call you
Dec 13 15:49:31 <NeddySeagoon>	Grants ?
Dec 13 15:49:34 <tsunam>	and if we were doing it via check that would be needed
Dec 13 15:49:47 <tsunam>	antarus|wtf: can confirm with donnie if you'd like
Dec 13 15:50:00 <antarus|wtf>	well I mostly wanted to make sure no one else was screwing with our reimbursement ;)
Dec 13 15:50:16 <antarus|wtf>	but yes donnie needs to have a PO # from Google by Dec 31st, afaik
Dec 13 15:50:16 <NeddySeagoon>	antarus|wtf, so you have the info you need now ?
Dec 13 15:50:43 <tsunam>	NeddySeagoon: it sounds like antarus|wtf and donnie need to speak together and figure out who should move foward etc
Dec 13 15:50:45 <antarus|wtf>	well if Donnie is on top of it I'm not going to make a mess of things
Dec 13 15:51:05 *	antarus|wtf nods
Dec 13 15:51:09 <NeddySeagoon>	antarus|wtf, agreed.  Do you know that he is ?
Dec 13 15:51:19 <tsunam>	antarus|wtf: take your action item ;)
Dec 13 15:51:23 <antarus|wtf>	NeddySeagoon: nope, tsunam when did you hear from him last?
Dec 13 15:51:32 <tsunam>	a few days go
Dec 13 15:51:33 <tsunam>	sec
Dec 13 15:51:53 <tsunam>	incoming paste
Dec 13 15:51:54 <tsunam>	Joshua,
Dec 13 15:51:54 <tsunam>	A bit more info: I have registered to enroll the foundation as a
Dec 13 15:51:54 <tsunam>	Google supplier, which makes it qualified to sell stuff to Google. I
Dec 13 15:51:54 <tsunam>	have also requested a PO # from Google. I am waiting on the PO # to
Dec 13 15:51:57 <tsunam>	show up and cannot invoice them for payment until it does. As soon as
Dec 13 15:51:59 <tsunam>	I get the PO, I will send out the invoice. Once invoiced, it will take
Dec 13 15:52:02 <tsunam>	no longer than 30 days to receive payment via electronic funds
Dec 13 15:52:04 <tsunam>	transfer.
Dec 13 15:52:07 <tsunam>	Thanks,
Dec 13 15:52:09 <tsunam>	Donnie
Dec 13 15:52:10 <antarus|wtf>	ok that is sufficient for me
Dec 13 15:52:12 <tsunam>	that was thusday
Dec 13 15:52:12 <antarus|wtf>	thanks
Dec 13 15:52:20 *	quantumsummers returns ... sorry
Dec 13 15:52:48 <quantumsummers>	what shall we sell to google?
Dec 13 15:52:52 <quantumsummers>	;)
Dec 13 15:53:11 <NeddySeagoon>	looks ok to me
Dec 13 15:53:25 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: I forgot about the cert for rbu. its on my calendar now
Dec 13 15:53:40 <NeddySeagoon>	288626 [Gentoo 10 Live DVD] Vendor List 
Dec 13 15:53:41 <quantumsummers>	tsunam: +1
Dec 13 15:53:45 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, np
Dec 13 15:54:07 <dabbott>	Waiting for a new Gentoo 10 Live DVD iso to be released, less bugs, more support etc
Dec 13 15:54:41 <robbat2|na>	err, did we miss the "Trustee Mail" block on the agenda? w/ items "Donation and Vendor Advertising", "Selling CD's and DVD's"
Dec 13 15:55:06 <quantumsummers>	yes
Dec 13 15:55:09 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott ok.  Did we get a response from the DVD vendor who was wanting a listing - we asked about a rate for 'bulk' for give aways
Dec 13 15:56:12 <dabbott>	yes that was Jason, he will work with us, I think he said 15% over cost
Dec 13 15:56:23 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm using the agenda linked from /topic   is that out of date ?
Dec 13 15:56:32 <robbat2|na>	my unofficial count for the referendum is 44 yes : 6 no.
Dec 13 15:56:37 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, refresh it maybe
Dec 13 15:56:58 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, that fixed it
Dec 13 15:57:15 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: w0w, that is a mandate
Dec 13 15:58:12 <NeddySeagoon>	Its still unoffcial as its not ratified by elections.   Its about a 25% and its a very positive response
Dec 13 15:58:21 <antarus|wtf>	mandate is a strong word... ;)
Dec 13 15:58:52 <quantumsummers>	:D
Dec 13 15:58:59 <antarus|wtf>	anyway I will flee now since the SOC stuff seems to be covered
Dec 13 15:59:07 <NeddySeagoon>	antarus|wtf, thanks
Dec 13 15:59:18 <quantumsummers>	antarus|wtf: thanks for assisting
Dec 13 16:00:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Donation and Vendor Advertising - needs the offcial result and some policy decisions on rates
Dec 13 16:00:08 <dabbott>	I think the members trust the current Trustees to not do anything dumb but as robbat2|na pointed out some quidelines need to be in place for the future
Dec 13 16:00:20 <tsunam>	AYE
Dec 13 16:00:24 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, agreed
Dec 13 16:00:25 <tsunam>	whoops caps
Dec 13 16:01:06 <tsunam>	that can be a discussion we have outside of a meeting though
Dec 13 16:01:12 <NeddySeagoon>	lets discuss guidelines on the alias.  We can reach a decision there too
Dec 13 16:01:12 <tsunam>	and just announce what the requirements are
Dec 13 16:01:13 <quantumsummers>	Motion: I propose we work on this policy via email to be released on 01 Jan
Dec 13 16:01:22 <robbat2|na>	aye
Dec 13 16:01:33 <dabbott>	yes
Dec 13 16:01:34 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Dec 13 16:01:40 <quantumsummers>	I can provide some examples.
Dec 13 16:02:08 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: can we arrive at some price point equivalent to bogomips, any ideas?
Dec 13 16:02:24 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, OK.
Dec 13 16:02:34 <quantumsummers>	as that is what the code assumes .. well some normalized rating
Dec 13 16:02:39 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, to the list please
Dec 13 16:02:50 <quantumsummers>	:) -nfp?
Dec 13 16:02:53 <robbat2|na>	take it to email, because there is a wide disparity. i'll try to work out out what the existing people are doing in terms of both hardware and $ cost
Dec 13 16:03:21 <quantumsummers>	robbat2|na: ok. I can add some thoughts if you desire
Dec 13 16:03:28 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, to the alias first - then nfp once we are pretty much agreed
Dec 13 16:03:37 <quantumsummers>	ok. good
Dec 13 16:03:37 <NeddySeagoon>	Selling CD's and DVD's 
Dec 13 16:03:42 <jmbsvicetto>	robbat2|na: you're missing 2 votes in dev (may be invalid votes) and 3 votes by mail
Dec 13 16:04:06 <robbat2|na>	what shall we tell the current people waiting for an answer?
Dec 13 16:04:45 <robbat2|na>	i think even with 5 other votes, it still passes, so we can tell them it's tentatively accepted, and we'd like to see their initial submissions while we construct the requirements for sidebar
Dec 13 16:04:48 <NeddySeagoon>	I think we need a policy on this.  Like anyone doing this to make money needs our say so, anyone just covering costs need only acknowledge us
Dec 13 16:05:33 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, I agree that we have suffcient confidence to progress the matter
Dec 13 16:05:50 <quantumsummers>	Yes, we should work on converting the existing sponsors while we construct the policy, then once the items are in place we can approach the potential donors
Dec 13 16:05:54 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon, I agree and have a page we can point them to explaining it like http://www.gentoo.org/main/en/name-logo.xml
Dec 13 16:05:57 <robbat2|na>	NeddySeagoon, for CD/DVD, i'm in favour of that policy for CDs/DVDs
Dec 13 16:06:05 <robbat2|na>	and be stricter on other merchandise
Dec 13 16:06:16 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na yep
Dec 13 16:06:24 <dabbott>	robbat2|na, yes
Dec 13 16:06:33 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need a vote on the CD/DVD policy ?
Dec 13 16:06:52 <dabbott>	sure
Dec 13 16:07:09 <quantumsummers>	I misread, please disregard my previous statement
Dec 13 16:07:45 <quantumsummers>	I like the policy NeddySeagoon proposes. Split on expectation of profits
Dec 13 16:08:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion - vendors selling media at or close to costs need only acknowledge the Gentoo Foundation.  Vendors selling media at a profit need our permission
Dec 13 16:08:28 <quantumsummers>	seconded
Dec 13 16:08:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Vote
Dec 13 16:08:34 <tsunam>	yes
Dec 13 16:08:34 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Dec 13 16:08:38 <dabbott>	yes
Dec 13 16:08:40 <quantumsummers>	aye
Dec 13 16:08:41 <robbat2|na>	aye
Dec 13 16:08:58 <quantumsummers>	please define the acceptable margin
Dec 13 16:09:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Carried - It needs to get on the websire
Dec 13 16:09:13 <quantumsummers>	<2%?
Dec 13 16:09:22 <quantumsummers>	<5%?
Dec 13 16:09:31 <NeddySeagoon>	just to make sure they don't trade at a loss
Dec 13 16:10:00 <robbat2|na>	some vendors put their profit into shipping costs
Dec 13 16:10:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Like the GPL-2 statement on source code
Dec 13 16:10:30 <NeddySeagoon>	Vendors are permitted to change for shipping
Dec 13 16:11:40 <NeddySeagoon>	Like the GPL-2 statement on source code  ....   comments
Dec 13 16:11:42 <NeddySeagoon>	?
Dec 13 16:12:12 <quantumsummers>	I am ok with that.
Dec 13 16:12:32 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Dec 13 16:12:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Special Member Voting ... have we done that one ?
Dec 13 16:12:55 <quantumsummers>	we can always refine that with the legal counsel
Dec 13 16:13:19 <NeddySeagoon>	Hmm the GPL-2 has stood the test of time
Dec 13 16:13:28 <NeddySeagoon>	but yes, we can
Dec 13 16:13:29 <quantumsummers>	We have a tentative return in favor of the action
Dec 13 16:13:52 <robbat2|na>	it's only been tested in some jurisdictions, it's mostly been settled out of court
Dec 13 16:14:06 <NeddySeagoon>	Sorry - I went backwards - we are on bugs
Dec 13 16:14:16 <NeddySeagoon>	296492  "Agenda" links are wrong 
Dec 13 16:14:43 <dabbott>	thats done, plus discussed before
Dec 13 16:14:50 <robbat2|na>	i discussed that w/ the minutes stuff above
Dec 13 16:14:51 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Dec 13 16:14:54 <quantumsummers>	close the bug please
Dec 13 16:15:07 <robbat2|na>	when i've made the changes
Dec 13 16:15:09 <robbat2|na>	i will
Dec 13 16:15:16 <quantumsummers>	thanks
Dec 13 16:15:26 <NeddySeagoon>	296766 Corrections to corporation filing needed as of 2009/12/13 we discussed this with tsunam before
Dec 13 16:15:35 <robbat2|na>	yup, i just made that bug per the meeting
Dec 13 16:15:37 <quantumsummers>	yes
Dec 13 16:16:13 <NeddySeagoon>	5.  New Business 
Dec 13 16:16:28 <NeddySeagoon>	OSUOSL Donation
Dec 13 16:17:01 <quantumsummers>	I am for a donation
Dec 13 16:17:15 <dabbott>	me also
Dec 13 16:17:21 <NeddySeagoon>	I can go with Solars 6* number of devs
Dec 13 16:17:26 <robbat2|na>	ditto, but a smaller amount
Dec 13 16:17:36 <robbat2|na>	as some devs are donating on their own
Dec 13 16:17:47 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2|na, what did you have in mind ?
Dec 13 16:17:51 <quantumsummers>	I would support a $1000 donation
Dec 13 16:17:56 <tsunam>	that should not be a consideration robbat2|na 
Dec 13 16:17:58 <quantumsummers>	at the Patron level
Dec 13 16:18:25 <robbat2|na>	i'd be happy with an even $1k
Dec 13 16:18:41 <quantumsummers>	http://osuosl.org/friends/members
Dec 13 16:18:46 <quantumsummers>	we get a nice link ^^
Dec 13 16:19:01 <tsunam>	which is a side benefit
Dec 13 16:19:06 <quantumsummers>	who gets the beer mugs?
Dec 13 16:19:10 <quantumsummers>	:P
Dec 13 16:19:11 <tsunam>	not areason for donating
Dec 13 16:19:33 <quantumsummers>	we donate becase OSL has been incredible to Gentoo
Dec 13 16:20:15 <quantumsummers>	I linked to that mainly so you guys see how they are doing things. Its a nice campaign they put together
Dec 13 16:20:19 <NeddySeagoon>	I was thinging of more than $1000 but I can go with that 
Dec 13 16:20:46 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, I thought that too - we can learn from it
Dec 13 16:20:56 <robbat2|na>	i need to finish getting pictures off my camera, and put up those of our hardware at OSL
Dec 13 16:21:08 <quantumsummers>	I would love to see those
Dec 13 16:21:09 <NeddySeagoon>	I look like we have 2 or 3 suggestions of $1000
Dec 13 16:21:26 <quantumsummers>	we can always donate more at a later date
Dec 13 16:21:51 <NeddySeagoon>	It looks like this will be an annual thing, not a one off event
Dec 13 16:22:07 <quantumsummers>	Motion: Donate $1000 to OSU OSL for their 6for6 campaign. Deliver by 01 Jan. 2010
Dec 13 16:22:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion - Donate $1000 to OSL   
Dec 13 16:22:19 <robbat2|na>	aye
Dec 13 16:22:26 <quantumsummers>	aye
Dec 13 16:22:31 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Dec 13 16:22:33 <dabbott>	yes
Dec 13 16:22:56 <dabbott>	Patron - $1,000 Annual Donation
Dec 13 16:23:19 <NeddySeagoon>	tsunam, ?
Dec 13 16:23:40 <quantumsummers>	tsunam: please write them a check. once we have sent it to them we can put a news item up.
Dec 13 16:23:49 <tsunam>	will do
Dec 13 16:23:56 <quantumsummers>	thank you
Dec 13 16:23:59 <solar>	thank you
Dec 13 16:24:13 <quantumsummers>	solar: thanks for bringing it to our attention
Dec 13 16:24:25 <NeddySeagoon>	6 Membership Applications 
Dec 13 16:24:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Block vote for devs please
Dec 13 16:24:53 *	NeddySeagoon votes yes
Dec 13 16:24:53 <tsunam>	dev's aye
Dec 13 16:24:53 <quantumsummers>	aye
Dec 13 16:25:01 <robbat2|na>	aye
Dec 13 16:25:02 <dabbott>	yes
Dec 13 16:25:10 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Dec 13 16:25:36 <quantumsummers>	I will add them to my list on Monday
Dec 13 16:25:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Community Members
Dec 13 16:25:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Community Members
Dec 13 16:25:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Community Members
Dec 13 16:25:57 <NeddySeagoon>	Sorry
Dec 13 16:25:58 <quantumsummers>	both have been approved already
Dec 13 16:26:09 <quantumsummers>	prior to teh election recording date
Dec 13 16:26:15 <NeddySeagoon>	They were all accepted on the -ml
Dec 13 16:26:29 <quantumsummers>	I have Lefebvre's key now
Dec 13 16:26:47 <NeddySeagoon>	7 Date of Next Meeting - 17th Jan 2010 19:00 UTC
Dec 13 16:26:53 <quantumsummers>	+1
Dec 13 16:26:59 <NeddySeagoon>	+1
Dec 13 16:27:03 <dabbott>	+1
Dec 13 16:27:04 <robbat2|na>	+1
Dec 13 16:27:45 <NeddySeagoon>	I think that this will be our last meeting before nominations start in February 2010 too
Dec 13 16:28:04 <robbat2|na>	yes
Dec 13 16:28:12 <NeddySeagoon>	myself. tsunam and dabbott are up for election by rotation
Dec 13 16:28:22 <tsunam>	*nods*
Dec 13 16:28:45 <quantumsummers>	Will you three be running as incumbents? 
Dec 13 16:29:18 <NeddySeagoon>	We need to set a recording date for the election .... do we know who our voters are.
Dec 13 16:29:33 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, I'm still considering that
Dec 13 16:30:00 <dabbott>	quantumsummers, explain?
Dec 13 16:30:04 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: Ok.
Dec 13 16:30:13 <NeddySeagoon>	The recording date needs to be either our Jan or Feb meeting
Dec 13 16:30:43 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I am curious if everyone is planning to run for another term.
Dec 13 16:30:43 <NeddySeagoon>	any thoughts ?
Dec 13 16:30:50 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: Feb will be fine
Dec 13 16:30:54 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Dec 13 16:30:57 <quantumsummers>	when is the election?
Dec 13 16:31:02 <quantumsummers>	:D
Dec 13 16:31:11 <quantumsummers>	March
Dec 13 16:31:19 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, Nominations Feb, voting March
Dec 13 16:31:23 <quantumsummers>	yep Feb is quite apropos 
Dec 13 16:31:38 <NeddySeagoon>	8 Any other business
Dec 13 16:31:44 <robbat2|na>	none from me
Dec 13 16:31:45 <NeddySeagoon>	I've already done mine
Dec 13 16:31:54 <dabbott>	noone here
Dec 13 16:32:04 <tsunam>	nada
Dec 13 16:32:05 <quantumsummers>	I have none
Dec 13 16:32:17 <NeddySeagoon>	9. Open Floor
Dec 13 16:32:59 *	NeddySeagoon declares the meeting closed
