<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE news SYSTEM "/dtd/guide.dtd">

<news gentoo="yes" category="plans">

<!-- Enter your name here -->
<poster>NeddySeagoon</poster>

<!-- Date to be displayed - usually the GWN release date -->
<date>2009-31-09</date>

<!-- Title of the news item - don't forget to change the date -->
<title>Gentoo Trustees Monthy Meeting - Sunday, 15 February 2009</title>

<body>
<!-- Alter to your own likings -->
<p>
<b>Time and Venue</b>
</p>
<p></p>
<p>
<b>Sunday, 15 February 2009 1900 UTC on irc.freenode.net #gentoo-trustees</b>
</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>

<p>
<b>Agenda</b>
</p>

<ol>
<li>Introductions</li>

<li>Actions From the Last Meeting
   <ul>
      <li>Gentoo Foundation Banking - tsunam</li>
      <li>Certified Public Accountant  - quantumsummers</li>
      <li>Send friendly cease and desist emails to copyright infringers spotted on cafepress  - quantumsummers</li>
      <li>Treasurers Report for FY ending 30 June 2008</li>
      <li>Foundation Knowledge Management Needs - quantumsummers</li>
      <li>Trustee Elections 2009</li>
   </ul>
</li>

<li>Open Bugs Assigned to Trustees
   <ul>
      <li>217511 The Gentoo Store is Out of Date - musikc</li>
      <li>224689 Request for Reimbusement for legal fees to lawyer</li>
      <li>234705 Document of being an active developer</li>
      <li>245227 budget limit for infra repairs</li>
      <li>253491 Gentoo Store - Add Case stickers, badges</li>
      <li>254588 Possible confusion over use of the Gentoo Penguin (Quicktime Penguin) Logo</li>
      <li>255274 Funding request: SATA HDD for superh development board</li>
      <li>256441 foundation-announce@gentoo.org mailing list for official Foundation correspondence.</li>
   </ul>
</li>

<li>Actions From Previous Meetings on hold for one or more actions above
   <ul>
      <li>Trustees and Foundation Article For the GMN - (On hold while we are under strenght)</li>
      <li>Working with Gentoo e.V. - fmccor (On hold for Feb/Mar Gentoo e.V. meeting)</li>
      <li>Licencing For emtom.cz - quantumsummers (On hold for Feb/Mar Gentoo e.V meeting)</li>
      <li>Licencing For Projektfarm GmbH - quantumsummers (On Hold for Feb/Mar Gentoo e.V meeting)</li>
      <li>Fix name and address on IPR/trademark documents, 31 Aug 2008 meeting authorised the $200 fees - fmccor</li>
   </ul>
</li>


<li>Membership Applications - if you have applied and you are not listed below, please remind the trustees
   <ul>
      <li>Gentoo Developers
         <ul>
            <li>r0bertz</li>
            <li>a3li</li>
         </ul>
      </li>
  </ul>
   <ul>
      <li>Community Members
         <ul>
            <li>WEIRDEDOUT</li>
            <li>oahong</li>
         </ul>
      </li>
   </ul>
</li>

<li>Annual General Meeting Planning</li>
<li>Date of Next Meeting - Sunday 15 March 2009 1900 UTC</li>
<li>Any other business</li>
<li>Open floor</li>
</ol>

<p>
<b>Meeting Conduct</b>
</p>

<p>
The channel will be open (not moderated) during the meeting unless there is so much chatter it becomes impossible to 
make progress.
</p>
<p>
Attendees can help by keeping questions to the end of an agenda item or the end of the meeting - your 
point may be covered during the discussion anyway.
</p>
<p>
Do not expect to bring up items in Any Other Business and get an instant response. Calm considered well 
reasoned emails to <mail link="trustees@gentoo.org">the trustees</mail> or opening a bug are the best ways 
to bring up new ideas.
</p>

<p>
<b>Record Keeping</b>
</p>

<p>
The meeting will be logged and both the <uri link="http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes/">full log and a summary</uri> 
 of decisions will be made publicaly available
</p>

</body>

</news>