**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Sun Oct 11 12:00:02 2009

Oct 11 12:00:02 NeddySeagoon	hi quantumsummers dabbott robbat2|na 
Oct 11 12:00:06 *	quantumsummers calls the meeting to order
Oct 11 12:00:13 quantumsummers	roll call, please
Oct 11 12:00:17 robbat2|na	here
Oct 11 12:00:22 *	robbat2|na sets mode -e robbat2|na
Oct 11 12:00:22 *	You are now known as robbat2
Oct 11 12:00:23 *	services. sets mode +e robbat2
Oct 11 12:00:28 *	NeddySeagoon is here
Oct 11 12:00:32 dabbott	present
Oct 11 12:00:50 quantumsummers	we have quorum, very good.
Oct 11 12:01:00 quantumsummers	tsunam_ sends his regrets
Oct 11 12:01:09 NeddySeagoon	tsunam_, sent his apologies
Oct 11 12:01:23 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: would you like to chair this meeting?
Oct 11 12:01:44 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, no thanks - I have a lot of catching up to do
Oct 11 12:02:01 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: very well. :)
Oct 11 12:02:41 quantumsummers	well gentoo has had a ton of cool things happen since our last meeting, so congrats & thanks to everyone who participated.
Oct 11 12:02:51 robbat2	i can run it quickly if there's no other takers
Oct 11 12:03:13 quantumsummers	robbat2: if you wish, sir.
Oct 11 12:03:28 robbat2	just in a noisy house atm as there is a film crew in my kitchen+diningroom
Oct 11 12:03:41 quantumsummers	what the? film crew?!?
Oct 11 12:03:41 robbat2	(long story)
Oct 11 12:03:46 quantumsummers	heheh
Oct 11 12:04:01 dabbott	househusbands
Oct 11 12:04:02 quantumsummers	lets get this show on the road, shall we?
Oct 11 12:04:10 robbat2	yup
Oct 11 12:04:12 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, you got cheap accomodation on a film set ?
Oct 11 12:04:18 quantumsummers	lol
Oct 11 12:04:29 robbat2	nah, a friend asked a favor at short notice
Oct 11 12:04:37 quantumsummers	nice to see everyone in a good modd today :)
Oct 11 12:04:37 robbat2	and I owed him 
Oct 11 12:04:43 quantumsummers	*mood
Oct 11 12:04:46 NeddySeagoon	anyways - to the meeting
Oct 11 12:04:47 robbat2	anyway, so logging first of all
Oct 11 12:04:52 robbat2	who's going to post it?
Oct 11 12:05:07 *	quantumsummers has been slacking on that. I do have all the logs up to now
Oct 11 12:05:17 NeddySeagoon	my logger is here
Oct 11 12:05:26 quantumsummers	I do have a few questions, however.
Oct 11 12:05:34 robbat2	we've got lots of copies of the logs, and not enough time to post them
Oct 11 12:05:43 quantumsummers	are we planning on moving to a yearly dir for the logs?
Oct 11 12:05:43 robbat2	maybe delay those questions to the minutes action item?
Oct 11 12:05:51 quantumsummers	fine by me
Oct 11 12:05:55 robbat2	since I had questions there too
Oct 11 12:06:03 quantumsummers	ok, thats good
Oct 11 12:06:33 robbat2	quantumsummers is logging for now, backups with NeddySeagoon's bot, Willikins, robbat2
Oct 11 12:06:46 quantumsummers	robbat2: you bot is logging now?
Oct 11 12:06:50 quantumsummers	*your
Oct 11 12:06:51 robbat2	he always did
Oct 11 12:07:02 robbat2	just nobody asked for them
Oct 11 12:07:09 quantumsummers	ah, very nice. Is there anyway we could automate publishing?
Oct 11 12:07:28 robbat2	i'd rather not put keys on the box with the bot
Oct 11 12:07:35 quantumsummers	ah, ok.
Oct 11 12:07:36 robbat2	but maybe, LATER in the meeting
Oct 11 12:07:40 quantumsummers	kk
Oct 11 12:07:45 robbat2	======
Oct 11 12:07:48 robbat2	OLD business
Oct 11 12:07:54 robbat2	======
Oct 11 12:08:07 robbat2	- Treasurers Report
Oct 11 12:08:10 robbat2	- Banking
Oct 11 12:08:13 robbat2	tsunam isn't here
Oct 11 12:08:25 robbat2	does anybody else have items to be logged for those?
Oct 11 12:08:33 quantumsummers	he did mention that the report was not finished yet
Oct 11 12:08:47 quantumsummers	banking is in good shape as far as I can tell
Oct 11 12:08:54 quantumsummers	we are fine there.
Oct 11 12:08:59 NeddySeagoon	hes due two.  this years and last years
Oct 11 12:09:10 quantumsummers	the $$ has been moved from the old netbank account to the new one
Oct 11 12:09:20 robbat2	iirc didn't we cover last years in a previous meeting?
Oct 11 12:09:36 quantumsummers	seems like we did. I thought last year as complete
Oct 11 12:09:37 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, only if it was the last meeting
Oct 11 12:09:56 NeddySeagoon	like I said, I have catching up to do
Oct 11 12:10:09 NeddySeagoon	just /ignore me :)
Oct 11 12:10:12 robbat2	lol, ok
Oct 11 12:10:23 robbat2	- Secretaries Report
Oct 11 12:10:26 robbat2	quantumsummers, your floor
Oct 11 12:10:58 quantumsummers	that was finished by the AGM, the report I mean.
Oct 11 12:11:11 quantumsummers	anything I am missing?
Oct 11 12:11:20 quantumsummers	we voted on its acceptance
Oct 11 12:11:55 quantumsummers	http://dev.gentoo.org/~quantumsummers/secretarys_report_2009.html
Oct 11 12:12:02 robbat2	I thought so too, not sure why it was on the agenda
Oct 11 12:12:06 robbat2	is it committed to CVS?
Oct 11 12:12:12 quantumsummers	I included the edits y'all asked for
Oct 11 12:12:20 quantumsummers	robbat2: I'll check on that
Oct 11 12:13:39 quantumsummers	yes it is committed
Oct 11 12:13:46 quantumsummers	err, wait
Oct 11 12:14:31 quantumsummers	it is not, I'll put it foundation/en/minutes09/2009 with the Pres report
Oct 11 12:14:43 quantumsummers	ah I recall why, I didn't xml-ify the doc
Oct 11 12:14:52 quantumsummers	will do that after the meeting
Oct 11 12:15:34 robbat2	ok, thanks
Oct 11 12:15:50 robbat2	- Certified Public Accountant
Oct 11 12:15:52 robbat2	you again quantumsummers
Oct 11 12:16:29 quantumsummers	yes, so I'm going to pass the report from tsunam to the cpa when its done
Oct 11 12:16:43 quantumsummers	it appears that we are in good shape re: taxes
Oct 11 12:17:12 quantumsummers	I think we will need to actually start paying a cpa sooner than later
Oct 11 12:17:17 NeddySeagoon	what about our filings ?
Oct 11 12:17:49 quantumsummers	with the IRS? we do not have to file since we made less than $25,000 USD
Oct 11 12:18:01 robbat2	assuming you mean the 501 stuff, we need the CPA and possibly SFLC for that
Oct 11 12:18:17 quantumsummers	the filing with NM is done
Oct 11 12:18:30 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, I thought we had to file now regardless of income ?
Oct 11 12:18:35 quantumsummers	I signed off on that over a month ago, & tsunam_ submitted
Oct 11 12:19:13 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: there in lies an interesting thing. We do not have to file, but when we move to 501c3 we will have to start
Oct 11 12:19:29 quantumsummers	hence my thinking on paying a CPA in hte near future
Oct 11 12:20:20 NeddySeagoon	Ah ok.  
Oct 11 12:20:26 robbat2	quantumsummers, can you provide the trustees with the cost details of doing so? potentially with the CPA you've already got?
Oct 11 12:20:28 quantumsummers	now, had one of us been getting paid for the work here we sould have to file
Oct 11 12:20:48 quantumsummers	robbat2: It will cost us around $1000 per year
Oct 11 12:21:02 quantumsummers	perhaps less, esp if they can write it off
Oct 11 12:21:10 robbat2	work = paid (by Gentoo), for (Gentoo dev) or (anything Gentoo)?
Oct 11 12:21:58 quantumsummers	an individual paid by gentoo, as an employee
Oct 11 12:22:14 quantumsummers	which we have none of (employees)
Oct 11 12:22:23 robbat2	ok, so if we start paying wages/salary/stipends, then we get fun paperwork
Oct 11 12:22:39 robbat2	so long as it's reimbursing hardware/mentor travel etc we're clear?
Oct 11 12:22:44 quantumsummers	pretty much. its not that bad, & the cpa would/could do it easily
Oct 11 12:22:52 NeddySeagoon	the bylaws say trustees don't get paid
Oct 11 12:23:03 quantumsummers	yes, we are safe with our current activities
Oct 11 12:23:30 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: correct, but if at some point we may want to hire an executive director, blah blah
Oct 11 12:23:59 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, yep ... he/she would be an officer, so no problem there
Oct 11 12:24:04 quantumsummers	exactly
Oct 11 12:24:07 robbat2	some of the other large community distros do have one or two employees as well, for running some of their things
Oct 11 12:24:17 quantumsummers	yes, that is common.
Oct 11 12:24:28 quantumsummers	we are very uncommon, it appears
Oct 11 12:24:42 NeddySeagoon	we can do that if we can afford it and we need it
Oct 11 12:24:57 robbat2	thanks for the clarification re paperwork.
Oct 11 12:25:02 quantumsummers	all non-profits I work with have both paid & unpaid staff
Oct 11 12:25:07 quantumsummers	save gentoo :)
Oct 11 12:25:13 robbat2	any more questions or issues re CPA?
Oct 11 12:25:20 NeddySeagoon	we are too small yet
Oct 11 12:25:24 quantumsummers	indeed
Oct 11 12:25:29 robbat2	quantumsummers, do you think we need a vote to ack having a paid CPA?
Oct 11 12:25:37 quantumsummers	yes
Oct 11 12:25:43 robbat2	ok
Oct 11 12:25:53 NeddySeagoon	now is when we go got 501 ?
Oct 11 12:25:54 quantumsummers	we do not need one until we have the status change with the IRS
Oct 11 12:26:16 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: I was not able to understand your sentence
Oct 11 12:26:25 robbat2	vote: Should Gentoo pursue a paid CPA at such a time that a CPA is needed for our 501 status change?
Oct 11 12:26:35 NeddySeagoon	do we need the vote now, or when we go for 501 ?
Oct 11 12:26:36 dabbott	yes
Oct 11 12:26:39 robbat2	aye
Oct 11 12:26:46 NeddySeagoon	yes
Oct 11 12:26:46 quantumsummers	aye
Oct 11 12:26:53 robbat2	motion passed
Oct 11 12:27:11 quantumsummers	good, thanks. I can make sure things are in place as we move forward
Oct 11 12:27:28 robbat2	NeddySeagoon, i worded it so that we can put off having one until we need it, as I don't think we need them immediately, but will soon when paperwork gets further
Oct 11 12:27:31 quantumsummers	of course you will know what is happening as its in process
Oct 11 12:27:40 NeddySeagoon	we need to compete the work so we can show an auitor we are getting value for money
Oct 11 12:27:59 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, I noticed
Oct 11 12:28:07 robbat2	any further questions re CPA?
Oct 11 12:28:20 quantumsummers	I have one
Oct 11 12:28:23 quantumsummers	sorry
Oct 11 12:28:36 robbat2	go for it
Oct 11 12:28:38 quantumsummers	do you have any issues with using the one we have currently
Oct 11 12:28:57 quantumsummers	or perhaps one recommended at a later date
Oct 11 12:29:08 quantumsummers	by, for example, the sflc
Oct 11 12:29:26 robbat2	you're the only one that's dealt with the present CPA I think, maybe see how busy they are
Oct 11 12:29:33 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, as we are getting the work unpaid now, no. eventually we will have to compete it to prove value for money
Oct 11 12:29:36 robbat2	or if the SFLC has somebody they already work with
Oct 11 12:29:44 quantumsummers	I can say, that unless we get one pro bono, it will be cheaper to stay with who we have
Oct 11 12:30:12 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: I am paying for it out of my pocket, more or less.
Oct 11 12:30:27 quantumsummers	just bundled it with all the other tax crud I have to deal with 
Oct 11 12:31:00 quantumsummers	as far as how busy, they are in fine shape to keep up with us
Oct 11 12:31:07 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, we need to be able to show we are using foundations money wisely, so we need a few quotes.
Oct 11 12:31:09 quantumsummers	we are tiny
Oct 11 12:31:16 quantumsummers	NeddySeagoon: yessir
Oct 11 12:31:37 quantumsummers	I can do some shopping around when the time comes
Oct 11 12:31:49 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, I have no problems not going with the lowest cost to keep continuity for a while
Oct 11 12:31:59 robbat2	+1 on the quotes, but unless they are widely out of whack, probably stay with the same, as a good working relationship like what quantumsummers already has is also valuable
Oct 11 12:32:05 *	quantumsummers knows several CPAs all over the place that work with 501c3s
Oct 11 12:32:21 quantumsummers	I would like it that the CPA is local to one of us
Oct 11 12:32:23 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, exactly
Oct 11 12:32:41 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, thats another consideration
Oct 11 12:32:42 quantumsummers	ok, good
Oct 11 12:32:56 quantumsummers	its very convenient to be able to visit personally
Oct 11 12:33:05 quantumsummers	err, in person
Oct 11 12:33:05 NeddySeagoon	+1 on that
Oct 11 12:33:08 dabbott	3 quotes, the lowest not automatic
Oct 11 12:33:22 NeddySeagoon	dabbott, yep
Oct 11 12:33:22 quantumsummers	sure, something like that is good
Oct 11 12:34:08 quantumsummers	ready to move to the next item?
Oct 11 12:34:29 robbat2	yup, fin on this one for me
Oct 11 12:34:35 robbat2	last call for more questions
Oct 11 12:34:58 robbat2	going once
Oct 11 12:35:10 robbat2	twice
Oct 11 12:35:30 robbat2	sold
Oct 11 12:35:32 quantumsummers	robbat2 the auctioneer :p
Oct 11 12:35:35 robbat2	next item:
Oct 11 12:35:38 robbat2	- Send friendly cease and desist emails to copyright infringers
Oct 11 12:35:43 robbat2	- New violation (linuxcd.org) ?
Oct 11 12:35:49 robbat2	quantumsummers, you yet again :-)
Oct 11 12:36:08 quantumsummers	alrighty. we have had success getting some of the cafepress people to stop.
Oct 11 12:36:35 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, well done
Oct 11 12:36:44 quantumsummers	talking with the sflc folks, we are in __no__ danger of losing our mark even if we do not actively pursue infringers
Oct 11 12:37:05 quantumsummers	however, I can devote some time to this
Oct 11 12:37:06 NeddySeagoon	... but we lose some of our income
Oct 11 12:37:11 quantumsummers	exactly
Oct 11 12:37:26 quantumsummers	so, w.r.t. the linuxcd people, I will contact them
Oct 11 12:37:32 quantumsummers	further
Oct 11 12:38:01 quantumsummers	if we do get a nice law firm, like the sflc, to assist us, it is highly unlikely that they would do much in this area for us
Oct 11 12:38:03 NeddySeagoon	thanks
Oct 11 12:38:10 quantumsummers	now
Oct 11 12:38:36 robbat2	NeddySeagoon, relatedly, what's the status with the new stores page, and the existing list of CD vendors?
Oct 11 12:38:44 quantumsummers	granted that we do achieve 501c3 soon, this perceived loss of income might become vanishingly small
Oct 11 12:38:53 NeddySeagoon	what happened to the Boston law firm.  Were we able to contct them ?
Oct 11 12:39:06 robbat2	negative
Oct 11 12:39:11 quantumsummers	I sent an email to somebody & never received a reply back
Oct 11 12:39:19 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, I've done nothing to in in 3 months 
Oct 11 12:39:24 quantumsummers	not sure if that person gone or what
Oct 11 12:39:46 quantumsummers	I can try again 
Oct 11 12:39:51 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, real life has been too busy.
Oct 11 12:39:59 quantumsummers	by emailing someone higher up in that office
Oct 11 12:40:21 robbat2	summarizing for a sec, no response from the boston firm, even if we do engage SFLC, we get to do more C&D work ourselves
Oct 11 12:40:27 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, don't bust a gut ... one one try then we'll leave it
Oct 11 12:40:34 quantumsummers	and I really need to make sure that I am CC-ing the alias on this stuff
Oct 11 12:40:49 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, yep.
Oct 11 12:40:52 quantumsummers	robbat2: yes
Oct 11 12:40:52 robbat2	NeddySeagoon, what's left on the new stores page? just merging the data and committing?
Oct 11 12:41:01 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, yes
Oct 11 12:41:03 robbat2	i'll take that over for you
Oct 11 12:41:36 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, thank you.  I won't have any time until about mid November
Oct 11 12:41:51 quantumsummers	very nice robbat2
Oct 11 12:42:12 robbat2	any questions re C&Ds?
Oct 11 12:42:14 robbat2	i've got one
Oct 11 12:42:20 quantumsummers	shoot :)
Oct 11 12:42:39 quantumsummers	read: ask away
Oct 11 12:43:17 robbat2	re CD vendors in general
Oct 11 12:43:22 robbat2	if they are selling Gentoo CDs
Oct 11 12:43:30 robbat2	even screen printed with the logo etc
Oct 11 12:43:39 robbat2	can we clearly lay out what they have to do?
Oct 11 12:43:55 robbat2	- trademark & copyright ack on the page
Oct 11 12:44:02 robbat2	^ selling page
Oct 11 12:44:04 robbat2	what else?
Oct 11 12:44:37 NeddySeagoon	they cannot sell CDs to make a profit ... thats anti GPL
Oct 11 12:44:38 quantumsummers	any disclainer?
Oct 11 12:44:47 robbat2	no, it's not anti-GPL
Oct 11 12:44:56 quantumsummers	gpl allows profit
Oct 11 12:45:01 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, every package comes with a disclaimer
Oct 11 12:45:26 quantumsummers	yes, ok
Oct 11 12:45:43 NeddySeagoon	lets think about this off line
Oct 11 12:45:50 robbat2	http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/selling.html <--- selling is fine
Oct 11 12:45:55 quantumsummers	the trouble with these resellers is that we have no idea if they are reporting honestly to us
Oct 11 12:46:31 quantumsummers	thus, it would be best if there were some way to ensure that reporting is honest
Oct 11 12:46:34 quantumsummers	& timely
Oct 11 12:47:05 robbat2	in a practical sense, that's mostly impossible I think
Oct 11 12:47:07 quantumsummers	afaict we have not received a payment from any of these resellers
Oct 11 12:47:15 quantumsummers	robbat2: I agree
Oct 11 12:47:40 quantumsummers	so, perhaps we can think of a better way to deal with these things
Oct 11 12:48:25 quantumsummers	like disallow reselling of merch. however there may be a cost prohibitive factor in there to think about regarding developing countries, etc
Oct 11 12:48:47 NeddySeagoon	lets do it on the -ml
Oct 11 12:48:49 robbat2	and it's outright illegal to prohibit resale in some countries
Oct 11 12:48:50 quantumsummers	ok
Oct 11 12:49:10 quantumsummers	interesting
Oct 11 12:49:42 robbat2	we're getting off topic with that, but for further details look at the autodesk/ebay resale/licensing issue
Oct 11 12:49:56 robbat2	also some of the high end fashion stuff on ebay
Oct 11 12:50:06 robbat2	back on CD vendors
Oct 11 12:50:10 quantumsummers	yes, that is an interesting debate
Oct 11 12:50:47 robbat2	IMO we should allow CDs if they are as we distribute the ISOs. the webpages and media should have relevant trademark/copyright notices on
Oct 11 12:51:00 robbat2	but beyond that, they can go for it
Oct 11 12:51:15 robbat2	merchandise we can keep a closer eye on
Oct 11 12:51:49 quantumsummers	fine by me in general, though we should not allow that in the US, Canada, & the EU, since we have a store for them to buy the disks from
Oct 11 12:52:04 quantumsummers	& the $$ from that supports the project
Oct 11 12:52:20 quantumsummers	even if its a little more pricey than some alternatives
Oct 11 12:52:41 robbat2	if and only if the store can get updated more reasonably
Oct 11 12:52:50 quantumsummers	I agree with that robbat2
Oct 11 12:53:12 robbat2	but if we're going to discuss the store itself in depth, per NeddySeagoon, push that to the list
Oct 11 12:53:17 quantumsummers	it would be niec if we could do a full package on cafepress for the dvds
Oct 11 12:53:29 quantumsummers	ok, to the -ml
Oct 11 12:53:42 dabbott	there are no open bugs for the store
Oct 11 12:54:06 quantumsummers	dabbott: since you have been working with the store, do we have the new dvd on there?
Oct 11 12:54:12 robbat2	last call for C&D questions
Oct 11 12:54:40 dabbott	we could if there was one to put up
Oct 11 12:55:10 quantumsummers	there is a new dvd
Oct 11 12:55:52 quantumsummers	dabbott: please open a bug about this, the gentoo-10 dvd should be available via the store
Oct 11 12:56:08 dabbott	ok
Oct 11 12:56:14 quantumsummers	thanks
Oct 11 12:56:22 quantumsummers	no more C&D?
Oct 11 12:56:25 robbat2	once
Oct 11 12:56:30 robbat2	twice
Oct 11 12:56:40 robbat2	done
Oct 11 12:56:49 robbat2	- SFLC Engagement Letter
Oct 11 12:57:09 robbat2	it didn't have anybody attached to it on the agenda
Oct 11 12:57:25 quantumsummers	IMO, we should be unanimous on this.
Oct 11 12:57:43 quantumsummers	It does look like the best option we have now.
Oct 11 12:57:44 NeddySeagoon	The questions I had were answered to my satisfaction.  I'm OK with it.
Oct 11 12:57:51 quantumsummers	ok, good.
Oct 11 12:58:10 quantumsummers	robbat2, dabbott do you guys have any reservations?
Oct 11 12:58:22 quantumsummers	for the record, I do not.
Oct 11 12:58:33 robbat2	i've got no concerns myself, but tsunam_ said he wanted to listen to the recording
Oct 11 12:58:42 robbat2	and didn't leave any comments about his views
Oct 11 12:58:49 NeddySeagoon	I don't like the single point of contact but if the correspondence ends up in our knowledge base, its manageable
Oct 11 12:59:07 quantumsummers	we should just make sure that the alias is CC'ed
Oct 11 12:59:12 dabbott	no, and as it was explained we can get out if we want to in the future
Oct 11 12:59:19 quantumsummers	yes
**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Sun Oct 11 13:00:00 2009

Oct 11 13:00:00 NeddySeagoon	I'm happy to give it a 12 month trial
Oct 11 13:00:17 quantumsummers	Motion: The board shall vote via email to accept the engagement, since Josh is absent.
Oct 11 13:00:27 NeddySeagoon	Seconded
Oct 11 13:00:28 robbat2	aye
Oct 11 13:00:33 NeddySeagoon	aye
Oct 11 13:00:33 dabbott	yes
Oct 11 13:00:39 quantumsummers	aye
Oct 11 13:00:42 robbat2	passed
Oct 11 13:00:58 robbat2	- Foundation Knowledge Management Needs - quantumsummers
Oct 11 13:01:12 robbat2	err, that is if there are no SFLC questions
Oct 11 13:01:14 robbat2	i don't think there are
Oct 11 13:01:19 quantumsummers	not from me
Oct 11 13:01:54 quantumsummers	alright, the KM stuff.
Oct 11 13:02:03 quantumsummers	So, I have redesigned the entire system
Oct 11 13:02:17 quantumsummers	we are re-launching in about 4 weeks
Oct 11 13:02:33 quantumsummers	its a multi user project based system.
Oct 11 13:02:56 quantumsummers	I have a variety of instruments setup for us to collect data with
Oct 11 13:03:04 quantumsummers	we can do our accounting in there
Oct 11 13:03:10 quantumsummers	it has full text search 
Oct 11 13:03:18 robbat2	double-entry bookkeeping?
Oct 11 13:03:22 quantumsummers	so I would like to put the entire history of the alias in there
Oct 11 13:04:10 quantumsummers	robbat2: I am really not sure what double entry is, its rather simple in design, made for small orgs, not corps
Oct 11 13:04:29 quantumsummers	my father was a corp accountant for 35 years, he helped me design the thing
Oct 11 13:04:49 quantumsummers	apparently its a good way to do things, though I have no real basis for comparison
Oct 11 13:05:10 quantumsummers	test it out, we don;t have to use it if it sucks,
Oct 11 13:05:20 quantumsummers	& if it sucks I'll redesign it
Oct 11 13:05:23 quantumsummers	to not suck
Oct 11 13:05:32 robbat2	each accounting entry is at least 2 accounts, with the + and - values zeroing out
Oct 11 13:05:58 quantumsummers	ah, I see. it is not like that
Oct 11 13:06:06 quantumsummers	you have a transaction
Oct 11 13:06:13 quantumsummers	+ or -
Oct 11 13:06:27 quantumsummers	perhaps its too basic
Oct 11 13:06:41 robbat2	nice example of double-entry (using the Ledger app)
Oct 11 13:06:42 quantumsummers	regardless, take a look & tell me your thoughts
Oct 11 13:06:43 robbat2	         Expenses:Utilities:Phone                   $23.00
Oct 11 13:06:43 robbat2	         Assets:Checking                           $-23.00
Oct 11 13:06:52 robbat2	the second value can actually be implicit
Oct 11 13:07:00 quantumsummers	now, it will do that stuff
Oct 11 13:07:08 quantumsummers	you just have to enter things once though
Oct 11 13:07:15 quantumsummers	via a simple form
Oct 11 13:07:29 quantumsummers	that is customizable to the needs of the group
Oct 11 13:07:40 robbat2	i explicitly said zeroing out, because there's some transactions that are actually 3 accounts when you have to track taxes
Oct 11 13:08:33 quantumsummers	right, it gets more complicated as you have divisions, etc. but I think its a nice little system, we can have cheesy reports in a click too
Oct 11 13:08:37 robbat2	but it sounds like it's close
Oct 11 13:08:49 robbat2	so when can we get accounts :-)
Oct 11 13:08:51 quantumsummers	should be, happy to take critisim too
Oct 11 13:09:00 quantumsummers	no patches please ;)
Oct 11 13:09:30 quantumsummers	yep, I can setup a preview maybe next week, our dev server crapped out on me
Oct 11 13:09:40 robbat2	accounts for the test runs, and then I can help you deploy it on infra boxes
Oct 11 13:10:36 quantumsummers	we can discuss that in full at a later point, but I think it will be a useful thing for us
Oct 11 13:10:37 robbat2	dabbott, NeddySeagoon: any questions re KM?
Oct 11 13:10:45 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, nope
Oct 11 13:10:57 dabbott	noone here
Oct 11 13:11:05 quantumsummers	ah, please email me if you have ideas about things like some thing you wish to collect data on, etc
Oct 11 13:11:52 quantumsummers	moving on?
Oct 11 13:12:02 robbat2	- Meeting Minutes Need Updating
Oct 11 13:12:17 *	quantumsummers hides
Oct 11 13:12:23 robbat2	we've been slacking on updating the foundation webpages
Oct 11 13:12:51 dabbott	I can help with that.
Oct 11 13:13:00 NeddySeagoon	should we drop summaries - the logs are not very long anayway ?
Oct 11 13:13:11 dabbott	yes
Oct 11 13:13:23 robbat2	make the summaries optional
Oct 11 13:13:34 robbat2	i've got a rough one while i've been chairing this
Oct 11 13:13:40 robbat2	mainly of action items and notes
Oct 11 13:13:41 NeddySeagoon	ok
Oct 11 13:14:06 quantumsummers	something like that, robbat2, could go to the -ml or something
Oct 11 13:15:05 quantumsummers	in addition, I think I'm finally going to have some interns again. Perhaps we could have one of them do the notes. That is, unless dabbott wants to do it.
Oct 11 13:15:09 robbat2	question I have, is should we re-arrange the minutes etc?
Oct 11 13:15:22 quantumsummers	good question
Oct 11 13:15:28 quantumsummers	that is a mess atm
Oct 11 13:15:34 quantumsummers	needs clean up
Oct 11 13:15:53 quantumsummers	needs a new index page that links in the sub indexes for each year
Oct 11 13:16:03 quantumsummers	that way it would be modular
Oct 11 13:16:29 quantumsummers	of course, that is just an idea.
Oct 11 13:16:45 *	quantumsummers is quite happy to entertain others
Oct 11 13:17:10 dabbott	are all the minutes stored in a folder somewhere?
Oct 11 13:17:11 quantumsummers	robbat2: since you are the sysadmin guru. what are your thoughts on a nice schema for this?
Oct 11 13:17:17 *	NeddySeagoon made it the way it is now in a hurry, to try to keep things managable
Oct 11 13:17:50 quantumsummers	dabbott: yes, well sort of. can you do a checkout of the foundation web space?
Oct 11 13:17:52 robbat2	we should rm the old /minutes/ after we make sure all the data is duplicated
Oct 11 13:18:19 robbat2	do we not have minutes from the previous trustees at all?
Oct 11 13:18:25 robbat2	it only seems to go back to 2008
Oct 11 13:18:48 quantumsummers	from what I know, the previous board did not even have formal meetings
Oct 11 13:18:57 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, not that I'm aware of.  Only the AGM is required by NM lay
Oct 11 13:19:01 NeddySeagoon	law*
Oct 11 13:19:01 quantumsummers	or they were rare
Oct 11 13:19:09 robbat2	fun, no logs of the AGMs even?
Oct 11 13:19:22 quantumsummers	there is a huge amount of mail, perhaps something is in there.
Oct 11 13:19:29 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, nothing that I am aware of
Oct 11 13:19:33 quantumsummers	why I want to get a text index running on that
Oct 11 13:19:44 quantumsummers	robbat2: do you have the mail tarball?
Oct 11 13:19:47 robbat2	no i don't
Oct 11 13:19:51 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, I onlu have mail from March 2008
Oct 11 13:19:53 robbat2	i wasn't aware there was one
Oct 11 13:20:01 robbat2	i'd love a copy
Oct 11 13:20:10 robbat2	for the stuff that was on the alias
Oct 11 13:20:25 quantumsummers	someone emailed me a huge tarball when I was added as Sec
Oct 11 13:20:35 quantumsummers	I'll send it too you robbat2
Oct 11 13:20:37 NeddySeagoon	I can tar up my alias stuff, which goes back to 2008
Oct 11 13:20:38 robbat2	thanks
Oct 11 13:20:49 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, that was me
Oct 11 13:20:59 quantumsummers	I thought that was all the old stuff
Oct 11 13:21:10 quantumsummers	there were like 10000 emails in there
Oct 11 13:21:11 robbat2	so another action item for me, is probably to come up with re-arranging the minutes, agendas and existing summaries
Oct 11 13:21:20 NeddySeagoon	Nope, from when I was added to the alias
Oct 11 13:21:26 dabbott	there are 5 logs from 2009 in /minutes/2009
Oct 11 13:22:02 robbat2	dabbott, there's /minutes/, /minutes09/ and /minutes08/
Oct 11 13:22:47 dabbott	why
Oct 11 13:22:50 NeddySeagoon	 /minutes/ is the main index page, pointing to   /minutes09/ and /minutes08/
Oct 11 13:22:51 quantumsummers	lol
Oct 11 13:23:16 robbat2	NeddySeagoon, no, it's not
Oct 11 13:23:26 robbat2	the toplevel foundation page points only to /minutes0{8,9}/
Oct 11 13:23:36 robbat2	 /minutes/ is the old page
Oct 11 13:24:01 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, hmm, if there is useful stuff there, I screwed up
Oct 11 13:24:14 robbat2	i'll probably clean it up like the council ones, I think there's some XSL to do it nicely already
Oct 11 13:24:39 quantumsummers	robbat2: I sent that to you
Oct 11 13:24:40 robbat2	(date) (type) (agenda) (log) (summary) (comments)
Oct 11 13:24:53 quantumsummers	you rejected me
Oct 11 13:24:55 robbat2	^^^ table with the above
Oct 11 13:25:06 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, the council page will get very long in a few years, thats why I used years as subfolders
Oct 11 13:25:25 robbat2	i've got no objections to the subfolders, just need to check for duplication
Oct 11 13:25:36 robbat2	i'll work on it
Oct 11 13:25:58 robbat2	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/council/ <-- look at that existing one for example
Oct 11 13:26:23 quantumsummers	robbat2: your email is finicky 
Oct 11 13:26:41 robbat2	odd, just throw it on dev in your homedir locked up and give me a path
Oct 11 13:26:45 robbat2	i'll pick it up later
Oct 11 13:26:57 quantumsummers	ok
Oct 11 13:27:18 robbat2	so I need to clean up the foundation minutes
Oct 11 13:27:24 robbat2	summaries proposed as optional
Oct 11 13:27:28 NeddySeagoon	quantumsummers, that tarball was encrypted for you
Oct 11 13:27:50 quantumsummers	oh, it was encrypted. didn't realize that
Oct 11 13:28:03 quantumsummers	ok, I'll fix it up for you robbat2
Oct 11 13:28:15 robbat2	any other questions or comments re me cleaning that stuff up?
Oct 11 13:28:27 NeddySeagoon	no
Oct 11 13:28:27 quantumsummers	my only comment: THANKS!!
Oct 11 13:28:32 robbat2	dabbott?
Oct 11 13:28:36 NeddySeagoon	... and thanks
Oct 11 13:28:42 dabbott	same here thanks robbat2 
Oct 11 13:28:52 NeddySeagoon	put it down to a cvs beginner
Oct 11 13:29:04 robbat2	ok, onto open bugs
Oct 11 13:29:10 robbat2	http://xrl.us/bfqrc8
Oct 11 13:29:33 robbat2	bug 239302
Oct 11 13:29:36 Willikins	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/239302 "wrong description of Gentoo Vendors site and strange reference to Gentoo Store"; Doc Other, Other; NEW; micm@g.o:trustees@g.o
Oct 11 13:29:40 robbat2	assigned to me from earlier in the meeting
Oct 11 13:29:48 robbat2	bug 287859
Oct 11 13:29:50 Willikins	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/287859 "[Unlicenced Vendor]  linuxcd.org"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dabbott@g.o:trustees@g.o
Oct 11 13:30:00 robbat2	for quantumsummers, earlier in the meeting as well
Oct 11 13:30:07 quantumsummers	got it
Oct 11 13:30:09 robbat2	bug 284224
Oct 11 13:30:12 Willikins	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/284224 "Summer of Code changes in reimbursement"; Gentoo Linux, Unspecified; NEW; dberkholz@g.o:trustees@g.o
Oct 11 13:30:22 quantumsummers	that appears to be going well
Oct 11 13:30:34 robbat2	tsunam_, mailed the cheques, so we get to wait for postal service
Oct 11 13:30:40 robbat2	RESO LATER
Oct 11 13:30:50 robbat2	bug 287435  
Oct 11 13:30:52 Willikins	robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/287435 "Wallpaper images for Gentoo Ten by Ben Stedman"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; ASSI; quantumsummers@g.o:trustees@g.o
Oct 11 13:30:59 *	quantumsummers will handle that as well
Oct 11 13:31:07 robbat2	it wasn't clear from the bug what the point of the bug was
Oct 11 13:31:19 quantumsummers	main point, get Ben to sign off on giving us the artwork
Oct 11 13:31:40 quantumsummers	which he has verbally to me
Oct 11 13:31:48 quantumsummers	sorry if that is unclear
Oct 11 13:32:16 robbat2	what license did it get put under?
Oct 11 13:33:04 quantumsummers	well at this point there is no lic, Ben doesn't care about that at all. So we have been given rights, we should decide the lic
Oct 11 13:33:19 robbat2	my gimp can't open the photoshop files
Oct 11 13:33:28 quantumsummers	I created the bug so we can keep track of things.
Oct 11 13:33:46 quantumsummers	hmm, not sure what to tell you robbat2
Oct 11 13:33:56 NeddySeagoon	we need a record of the donation
Oct 11 13:34:02 quantumsummers	exactly
Oct 11 13:34:10 NeddySeagoon	can we get Ben to comment on the bug ?
Oct 11 13:34:23 quantumsummers	yes, I had him sign up for an account
Oct 11 13:34:34 quantumsummers	I'll take care of the details next week
Oct 11 13:34:40 robbat2	CC-BY-SA, with a special thanks from the board to Ben
Oct 11 13:34:40 NeddySeagoon	ok
Oct 11 13:34:59 quantumsummers	makes sense to me
Oct 11 13:35:08 dabbott	second
Oct 11 13:35:15 quantumsummers	my gimp opened the file just fine btw
Oct 11 13:35:24 dabbott	mine also
Oct 11 13:35:26 quantumsummers	2.6.3
Oct 11 13:35:32 quantumsummers	2.6.4 rather
Oct 11 13:36:10 dabbott	 media-gfx/gimp-2.6.7  USE="alsa curl dbus gnome hal jpeg mmx pdf png python sse svg tiff -aalib (-altivec) -debug -doc -exif -lcms -mng -smp -webkit -wmf" 0 kB
Oct 11 13:36:22 NeddySeagoon	robbat2, works for me
Oct 11 13:36:33 robbat2	weird
Oct 11 13:36:57 NeddySeagoon	the CC-BY-SA, with a special thanks from the board to Ben licence
Oct 11 13:37:24 robbat2	CC-BY-SA for the license, with the attribution noted as Gentoo and Ben Stedman
Oct 11 13:37:45 robbat2	so his name gets noted in all usages per the BY clause :-)
Oct 11 13:37:54 robbat2	and the thanks from the board is seperate
Oct 11 13:37:54 quantumsummers	I think he'll be happy with that
Oct 11 13:38:24 robbat2	quantumsummers, since you're handling him, just look on the creative commons site, there's a helper tool to do it
Oct 11 13:38:32 quantumsummers	robbat2: just a hunch, but it might be lcms you need in USE
Oct 11 13:38:42 quantumsummers	robbat2: yes, thanks
Oct 11 13:38:59 quantumsummers	we'll have that closed this week.'
Oct 11 13:39:15 quantumsummers	where can I put the files for long term storage?
Oct 11 13:39:17 robbat2	or if need help beyond that, give me a yell, i've got some good contacts that are employed by CC
Oct 11 13:39:26 quantumsummers	kk
Oct 11 13:39:56 robbat2	hang onto them for the moment, i might have that side solved soon for you
Oct 11 13:40:06 quantumsummers	ok, thanks
Oct 11 13:40:25 robbat2	thats all the bugs
Oct 11 13:40:31 robbat2	new business
Oct 11 13:40:34 robbat2	- Live DVD dvd covers funding?
Oct 11 13:40:48 robbat2	not sure who's running that one
Oct 11 13:41:03 robbat2	dabbott, quantumsummers?
Oct 11 13:41:17 quantumsummers	hmm.
Oct 11 13:41:28 NeddySeagoon	I need to go ... I may be around odd times
Oct 11 13:41:30 quantumsummers	I am unsure what that means
Oct 11 13:41:36 robbat2	before you vanish
Oct 11 13:41:40 robbat2	NeddySeagoon
Oct 11 13:41:47 dabbott	I can jump in, there has been some interest in printed media for conventions etc
Oct 11 13:41:49 robbat2	vote to approve membership of new dev ABCD
Oct 11 13:41:58 quantumsummers	ok, NeddySeagoon, have a fine Sunday evening :) nice to have you with us.
Oct 11 13:42:11 quantumsummers	aye, re: ABCD
Oct 11 13:42:17 robbat2	aye
Oct 11 13:42:21 dabbott	bye NeddySeagoon 
Oct 11 13:42:27 dabbott	yes for ABCD
Oct 11 13:42:34 quantumsummers	his note of request was really funny
Oct 11 13:42:42 robbat2	and I think we just missed neddy anyway
Oct 11 13:43:02 quantumsummers	well, we hav a majorty
Oct 11 13:43:16 quantumsummers	ABCD is a member now. very  nice
Oct 11 13:43:23 robbat2	passed
Oct 11 13:43:24 quantumsummers	I shall notify his
Oct 11 13:43:28 quantumsummers	*him
Oct 11 13:43:29 robbat2	going back to the funding
Oct 11 13:43:33 robbat2	dabbott, your floor
Oct 11 13:43:34 quantumsummers	ok
Oct 11 13:44:31 dabbott	would be nice to have some nice covers to put on the dvd
Oct 11 13:44:31 *	quantumsummers has to take care of something for a sec. please continue, I'll return in <4 mins
Oct 11 13:44:48 robbat2	we've got the artwork already
Oct 11 13:45:05 robbat2	so that's related to actually stocking the store then
Oct 11 13:45:12 robbat2	or getting print-on-demand better
Oct 11 13:45:48 dabbott	yes, but also to give to dev's 
Oct 11 13:46:12 robbat2	i'll be blunt re giving media to devs
Oct 11 13:46:35 robbat2	the north american conference scene is pretty dead in my opinion
Oct 11 13:47:19 robbat2	LWE flopped because the organizers wanted to charge the community booths $2k each
Oct 11 13:47:26 robbat2	where it had been free before
Oct 11 13:49:22 quantumsummers	WOW $2k?!!!
Oct 11 13:49:25 robbat2	Linux Symposium was very hard hit by the recession. Plumbers was reasonable, and apparently LinuxCon was ok (i didn't attend it)
Oct 11 13:50:12 robbat2	that leaves us with the more regional events like LinuxFest NW
Oct 11 13:50:35 dabbott	I will look into something for the store but cafepress only has certain items and I don't think cd dvd covers/ stickers are one of them 
Oct 11 13:50:55 robbat2	dabbott, please also look at the history of cafepress with gentoo CD befores
Oct 11 13:51:01 robbat2	s/s$//
Oct 11 13:51:05 quantumsummers	I know solar was upset by us not funding printing, however, its too expensive at the moment
Oct 11 13:51:27 robbat2	they have been fine for merchanise as they cover the production of that
Oct 11 13:51:41 robbat2	the handling of CDs before was, in short, a trainwreck by cafepress
Oct 11 13:52:02 quantumsummers	perhaps we should locate another vendor for disks?
Oct 11 13:52:17 quantumsummers	one that can handle things better
Oct 11 13:52:19 robbat2	at least 25% of the manufactured stock that was shipped to them got lost, potentially by them
Oct 11 13:52:27 dabbott	The dvd may be an item you would want to sell, who would you suggest sell them
Oct 11 13:52:55 quantumsummers	no idea about a new vendor, though I can look into it
Oct 11 13:53:35 quantumsummers	I do know of a company that wants to do some new stuff for us in the tshirts & other schwag area
Oct 11 13:53:57 quantumsummers	they would handle drop shipping, etc
Oct 11 13:54:15 quantumsummers	good quality too, american apparel shirts cheaper than the cafe press crap
Oct 11 13:54:38 robbat2	sure, we can look at that
Oct 11 13:54:39 quantumsummers	there would be some upfront costs to us though
Oct 11 13:54:57 quantumsummers	its a small shop, but they do nice work
Oct 11 13:55:00 dabbott	lets discuss this on the -ml and we can cont next meeting
Oct 11 13:55:06 quantumsummers	ok
Oct 11 13:55:13 robbat2	next item is:
Oct 11 13:55:16 robbat2	- License Allowed on Live DVD
Oct 11 13:55:51 quantumsummers	what does that mean?
Oct 11 13:55:51 dabbott	I am asking about firmware for wireless mainly
Oct 11 13:55:56 quantumsummers	ah, I see
Oct 11 13:56:16 quantumsummers	ok, this is an area we need some clarification
Oct 11 13:56:19 robbat2	if the license allows redistribution
Oct 11 13:56:22 robbat2	then we are fine
Oct 11 13:56:30 quantumsummers	also for nvidia display drivers, etc
Oct 11 13:56:45 quantumsummers	is that restricted?
Oct 11 13:56:59 quantumsummers	I think the intel stuff is ok to redist
Oct 11 13:57:26 robbat2	nvidia is ok too
Oct 11 13:57:38 robbat2	they have an explicit clause in their license allowing it
Oct 11 13:58:06 quantumsummers	nice, that would be a solid addition
Oct 11 13:58:18 quantumsummers	dabbott: will you inform likewhoa of that?
Oct 11 13:58:29 dabbott	yes
Oct 11 13:58:50 robbat2	if he wants to ask me about specific packages, send him my way
Oct 11 13:58:54 robbat2	probably via email for the questions
Oct 11 13:59:05 dabbott	ok ty robbat2 
Oct 11 13:59:26 robbat2	i have been doing some outside consulting for companies recently on GPL and other open-source licensing issues
Oct 11 13:59:44 robbat2	being compliant isn't hard if you think about it early
**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Sun Oct 11 14:00:54 2009

Oct 11 14:00:54 dabbott	robbat2, look at this one about haft way down http://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-t-793820-postdays-0-postorder-asc-start-125.html
Oct 11 14:01:21 dabbott	s/haft/half
Oct 11 14:01:58 quantumsummers	rt73?
Oct 11 14:02:59 quantumsummers	looks fine to me, as long as that lic is included
Oct 11 14:03:03 robbat2	one change to the ebuild and it's easy to make that one fully compliant
Oct 11 14:03:29 robbat2	specifically, install a copy of the license to the filesystem
Oct 11 14:03:36 quantumsummers	yep
Oct 11 14:03:38 robbat2	do NOT rely on /usr/portage being present
Oct 11 14:03:55 robbat2	i already do that for the qlogic fibrechannel firmware
Oct 11 14:04:46 robbat2	sys-block/qla-fc-firmware
Oct 11 14:04:49 robbat2	just follow that package
Oct 11 14:05:22 robbat2	any more questions?
Oct 11 14:05:39 robbat2	once
Oct 11 14:05:44 quantumsummers	lol
Oct 11 14:05:46 robbat2	twice
Oct 11 14:05:59 dabbott	what is the proper place to store the license /usr/share/licenses ?
Oct 11 14:06:06 robbat2	I just use dodoc
Oct 11 14:06:39 robbat2	next item: # Date of Next Meeting - 15th Nov 2009 19:00 UTC
Oct 11 14:06:51 robbat2	neddy was concerned of it having to shift maybe due to daylight savings
Oct 11 14:07:15 quantumsummers	I'm good with that date, we can always hold the meeting earlier
Oct 11 14:07:31 dabbott	fine by me, time can change
Oct 11 14:08:41 quantumsummers	so, shall we change it to 1800 UTC?
Oct 11 14:09:06 robbat2	i think push it to the list, since it was neddy that was concerned
Oct 11 14:09:17 quantumsummers	ok, that werkz
Oct 11 14:09:18 dabbott	sure is that better for Roy
Oct 11 14:09:41 robbat2	his main concern was the DST shifts at a different date for US/EU
Oct 11 14:09:48 quantumsummers	well, that time would be earlier in the evening for Roy.
Oct 11 14:09:48 robbat2	but UTC is constant
Oct 11 14:10:05 quantumsummers	lets figure it out over mail
Oct 11 14:10:08 robbat2	yeah
Oct 11 14:10:19 robbat2	any other business?
Oct 11 14:10:22 robbat2	nearly done now
Oct 11 14:10:26 quantumsummers	not from me
Oct 11 14:10:50 dabbott	yes, 1 thing
Oct 11 14:10:53 robbat2	one quick item from me too
Oct 11 14:10:55 robbat2	dabbott, go first
Oct 11 14:11:15 dabbott	I can do the agenda each week
Oct 11 14:11:28 quantumsummers	s/week/month
Oct 11 14:11:33 dabbott	each month sorry a week ahead of the meeting
Oct 11 14:11:53 quantumsummers	+1
Oct 11 14:11:53 dabbott	mail it to the list for updates
Oct 11 14:11:55 robbat2	can we have a mid-month agenda planning too?
Oct 11 14:12:04 robbat2	so just basically mail it out every 2 weeks
Oct 11 14:12:05 quantumsummers	+1
Oct 11 14:12:15 quantumsummers	that's a good idea
Oct 11 14:12:15 robbat2	we've had some items just stick when they were done
Oct 11 14:12:17 dabbott	yes
Oct 11 14:12:28 quantumsummers	ya sold me
Oct 11 14:13:07 robbat2	dabbott, approved. looking forward to reading it next week :-)
Oct 11 14:13:08 quantumsummers	dabbott: thanks for volunteering
Oct 11 14:13:15 robbat2	so from me
Oct 11 14:13:21 quantumsummers	yessir
Oct 11 14:13:24 dabbott	ok
Oct 11 14:13:25 robbat2	infra & sponsor interaction: we've gained 7 boxes so far this year
Oct 11 14:13:30 quantumsummers	nice
Oct 11 14:13:39 robbat2	there's a potential for 2 more that i'm talking with a potential new sponsor now
Oct 11 14:13:47 robbat2	but it's going to depend on the sidebar
Oct 11 14:13:51 quantumsummers	ok
Oct 11 14:14:01 quantumsummers	they want what?
Oct 11 14:14:09 robbat2	tsunam_ started collecting some sponsor info before
Oct 11 14:14:21 robbat2	but it's kind of lapsed, so I wanted to see what he was actually after
Oct 11 14:14:30 robbat2	since I interact with the sponsors the most
Oct 11 14:14:37 quantumsummers	I see.
Oct 11 14:14:58 dabbott	looks like 3 nice open spots on the sidebar :)
Oct 11 14:16:03 robbat2	actually we have zero open spots
Oct 11 14:16:12 robbat2	we have to handle the shortest length of any page
Oct 11 14:16:25 robbat2	with gives us 7 spots titak
Oct 11 14:16:26 robbat2	total
Oct 11 14:16:34 robbat2	there's about 10 requests right now
Oct 11 14:16:51 quantumsummers	robbat2: we need a little script to rotate that stuff
Oct 11 14:16:59 robbat2	i've been poking at OpenX for a potential ad serving setup
Oct 11 14:17:03 robbat2	but I can't say that i'm happy with it
Oct 11 14:17:16 quantumsummers	that is really large for our needs
Oct 11 14:17:31 robbat2	i was looking at it's lightweight HTML-render mode
Oct 11 14:17:38 robbat2	to throw in an iframe
Oct 11 14:17:44 quantumsummers	no JS?
Oct 11 14:17:48 robbat2	zero JS
Oct 11 14:17:55 quantumsummers	ok, fine by me
Oct 11 14:17:57 robbat2	that's one of my requirements
Oct 11 14:18:03 quantumsummers	makes sense
Oct 11 14:18:18 robbat2	just wondered if anybody else had suggestions
Oct 11 14:18:32 quantumsummers	something like this http://code.google.com/p/django-ad-server/
Oct 11 14:18:52 quantumsummers	I can take a look, we;ve been asked to produce one for a client that uses an iframe
Oct 11 14:19:11 quantumsummers	ha, that proj has no code 
Oct 11 14:19:11 robbat2	ok, i'll talk to you on it then
Oct 11 14:19:30 robbat2	open floor time
Oct 11 14:19:33 quantumsummers	its a really simple prob to solve in short oder
Oct 11 14:19:38 quantumsummers	*order*
Oct 11 14:19:51 robbat2	keeping the advertisers happy is the complex part ;-)
Oct 11 14:20:17 quantumsummers	right. of course. can you send me your known requirements?
Oct 11 14:20:31 robbat2	will do
Oct 11 14:20:52 robbat2	judging by the silence, i guess we have nothing for open floor
Oct 11 14:20:58 robbat2	or we've put them all to sleep
Oct 11 14:21:03 robbat2	sorry about the length of this
Oct 11 14:21:17 robbat2	once
Oct 11 14:21:22 quantumsummers	lol, 2.33 hours
Oct 11 14:21:33 quantumsummers	not bad relly
Oct 11 14:21:39 *	quantumsummers cannot type today
Oct 11 14:21:42 dabbott	thanks for chairing robbat2 
Oct 11 14:21:50 quantumsummers	yes thanks Robin
Oct 11 14:22:59 quantumsummers	robbat2: here is something to look at, its a tad large, but the idea is nice http://github.com/lethain/django-monetize
Oct 11 14:23:26 robbat2	later
Oct 11 14:23:28 robbat2	closing the meeting now
