<?xml version='1.0' encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE guide SYSTEM "/dtd/guide.dtd">
<guide link="/proj/en/devrel/manager-meetings/summaries/2003/20031215.xml">
<title>Gentoo Managers' Meeting Summary</title>
<subtitle>15 Dec. 2003</subtitle>
<date>28 Dec. 2003</date>
<author title="Author">Karl Trygve Kalleberg</author>
<author title="Editor">Tal Peer</author>
<author title="Editor">Grant Goodyear</author>

<abstract>This meeting began at 1908 UTC, and the guest chair was Karl Trygve Kalleberg. Although there were only two agenda items, the meeting was both contentious and long. The raw log is available <uri link="/proj/en/devrel/manager-meetings/logs/2003/20031215.txt">here</uri>.</abstract>


<chapter>
<title>Desktop Lead discussion crashes and burns</title>
<section><body><p>
Paul de Vrieze (pauldv) presented the nominees for the desktop lead
position (foser, liquidx, spider, spyderous, and tseng), and it
immediately became clear that the new procedures for electing a manager
were far from well-defined.
</p>
<p>
The new nomination/denomination procedure had been fairly
straightforward: devs could nominate any dev other than him- or herself
for the position by e-mailing pauldv with a detailed rationale for the
nomination.  After the nomination deadline passed and the names of the
nominees were announced, devs could then denominate any of the nominees,
again by e-mailing pauldv with the reasons for the denomination.
</p>
<p>
The process by which the managers would select a new desktop lead from
among the nominees was notably less clear.  Drobbins proposed voting by
ranking the candidates, but neither decision on the voting method nor an
actual vote ocurred, as Dennis M.D. Ljungmark (Spider) from the desktop
group pointed out that the desktop group had not really participated in
the selection process, noting that "the whole process seem[ed] opaque
and closed", a conclusion that apparently rendered, for them, the
nomination process itself fairly pointless.
</p>
<p>
That revelation pretty much shut down any actual discussion of the vote
itself, as the discussion then focused on how to construct a fair,
serviceable top-level manager selection procedure. Spider proposed using
the GNOME foundation as a model, taking management selection out of the
hands of the management.  Karltk noted that the selection process needs
to be as open as possible.  Kurt Lieber (klieber) stated his opinion
that the vote should be open, but that discussion about the candidates
should _not_ be so as to avoid "unnecessary hurt feelings and
embarassment".
</p>
<p>
Brian Jackson (iggy) noted that true democracy, waiting for ~200 devs to
vote on each issue, would unacceptably slow Gentoo development.  Seemant
Kulleen (seemant) and klieber proposed having the devs affected by a
manager (the various desktop teams, in this case) provide a list of
nominees and then have the managers have an open vote of which nominee
to select, with klieber noting that any workable approach needs to
balance the wishes of the devs involved and the ability of the chosen
nominee to work well with the other managers.
</p>
<p>
Daniel Robbins (drobbins) proposed having both dev-elected and
manager-appointed positions, essentially strengthening the distinction
between team leads (manager-appointed) and operation managers
(dev-elected).  Bartosch Pixa (Darkspecter) suggested that the model
used by the ppc teams to choose an operational manager could work here:
"the ppl [sic] involved elect someone as they should know best who's
suited for the job. [...S]hould a majority of gentoo management object
[to] the elected manager the devs involved could simply present a second
choice."
</p>
<p>
Drobbins admitted that one problem with going to full elections "is
that some key people may get bumped from their manager positions",
noting that some positions should definitely not be based on popularity
but on past history and a deep understanding of "the Gentoo way".
</p>
<p>
A detailed and fierce debate on the subject of electing mangement
ensued. The attendees quickly realised that the debate would take some
time, so the next point on the agenda was adressed before returning to
the subject.
</p>
<p>
Spoiler: No desktop lead one was elected.
<br/><br/>
Note: This discussion was very long and tangled, so please refer to the
meeting logs for the full transcript.
</p></body></section>
</chapter>

<chapter>
<title>Changes to app-portage</title>
<section><body>
<p>
A break was made where karltk and Marius Mauch (genone) presented the
pending work from the tools-portage herd.
</p>
<p>
<ul>
<li>The tools-portage group is in the process of developing a programmatic
interface to the Portage database and configuration files, to insulate
third-party scripts from the changing internals.</li>

<li>The current utilites in app-portage are outdated, and some of the
central tools will cease to function after the Portage upgrade to
2.0.50.</li>

<li>Some of the tools will be removed, the rest will be revamped and the
tools-portage herd will claim sole maintainership.</li>

<li>The entry barrier for getting distro-specific tools into Gentoo will
be raised, to avoid the extreme bitrot currently experienced.</li>
</ul>
</p>
</body></section>
</chapter>

<chapter>
<title>Open Floor</title>
<section><body><p>
By suggestion from pauldv, the floor was opened to anyone wanting to
participate in the desktop lead and management discussion.
<br/>
The discussion touched on recent efforts on QA, before returning to the
issue of how to perform management on the project as a whole.
</p>
<p>
Klieber again emphasized the need for managers to have input into who becomes
a manager, as the managers do need to work together as a team, while agreeing
that the process needs to be more open.  Drobbins repeated his thought that
there needs to be a distinction between operational and strategic managers.
Klieber also noted that communication may be the biggest problem right now, as
there are currently a number of existing avenues for devs to criticise the
current management structure (or the managers themselves), which do not seem
to be getting much use.  Drobbins enumerated the current available avenues for
complaint: contacting pauldv, working with devrel, or contacting the Gentoo
ombudsman office.
</p>
<p>
The final, if incomplete, result was that there was a general consensus
that the transparency and information from management was a strong
requirement. The current efforts pointed to by Grant Goodyear (g2boojum)
and drobbins were appreciated, and Spider promised to
give some constructive feedback from his (and the desktop group's)
viewpoint.  Further discussion of this issue would be required, and
would happen elsewhere.
</p>
<p>Meeting adjourned at 2155 UTC</p>
</body></section>
</chapter>
</guide>
