Dec 21 14:00:16 *	NeddySeagoon calls the December Trustees meeting to order
Dec 21 14:00:24 <Betelgeuse>	Present
Dec 21 14:00:30 *	SwifT replies "Present"
Dec 21 14:00:50 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT,  quantumsummers antarus ?
Dec 21 14:01:00 <SwifT>	^^
Dec 21 14:01:10 *	NeddySeagoon gives channel operator status to antarus
Dec 21 14:01:49 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum ... lets start
Dec 21 14:02:16 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, are you logging?  I mirght be, my logger is here
Dec 21 14:02:28 <Betelgeuse>	My irssi always logs any way
Dec 21 14:02:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, thanks
Dec 21 14:03:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 1  IRS Return 990 - quantumsummers confirmed that it was submitted in good time
Dec 21 14:03:32 <Betelgeuse>	good
Dec 21 14:05:06 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 2 Activity Tracker Nothing due. dabbott submitted the annual report, so we remain in good standing 
Dec 21 14:05:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, Hows RL?  any progress on the Gentoo Copyright Policy
Dec 21 14:06:23 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: Last estate inventory in January 8th
Dec 21 14:06:59 <NeddySeagoon>	OK, lets postpone further action until the Feb meeting
Dec 21 14:07:04 <Betelgeuse>	yeah
Dec 21 14:07:37 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers isn't here, so we will skip his bit
Dec 21 14:07:58 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Your turn  Gentoo Trademark License Agreement?
Dec 21 14:08:12 <SwifT>	I'll only know something about it in our january meeting
Dec 21 14:08:20 <NeddySeagoon>	OK
Dec 21 14:08:21 <SwifT>	gentoo e.v. has its annual meeting next week iirc
Dec 21 14:08:54 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT will you attend the e.V. meeting?  I assume its virtual?
Dec 21 14:09:08 <SwifT>	it's physical, but no - i wont attend it myself
Dec 21 14:09:49 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, I bet they don't get many attendees at a  physical meeting 
Dec 21 14:10:06 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugs ...
Dec 21 14:10:30 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: At least Finnish law requires the meeting to be physical
Dec 21 14:10:40 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: However only one person needs to be on site
Dec 21 14:10:46 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: Others can join remote
Dec 21 14:10:54 <Betelgeuse>	So really a technicality
Dec 21 14:11:04 <SwifT>	lol
Dec 21 14:11:06 <SwifT>	;)
Dec 21 14:11:14 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, New Mexico only requires that all participents can hear one another.
Dec 21 14:11:45 <Betelgeuse>	However the org neds to have explicitly approved joining remote
Dec 21 14:11:47 <NeddySeagoon>	and that the meeting be open
Dec 21 14:12:00 <Betelgeuse>	Usually by the board or in the rules of the org
Dec 21 14:12:21 <NeddySeagoon>	Bug 476718 
Dec 21 14:12:23 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/476718 "Request for bitcoin donation support"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; rich0:trustees
Dec 21 14:13:31 *	rich0_ is now known as rich0
Dec 21 14:13:51 <Betelgeuse>	Coinbase seems ok to me. I would like an ACK from our accountant first though.
Dec 21 14:14:41 <NeddySeagoon>	We discussed bitcoin and stocks and shares donations a year or so ago and decided that they should be discouraged.  But if anyone insisted, we would cash them soonest as holding other forms of investment is not our coure business
Dec 21 14:15:08 <NeddySeagoon>	core*
Dec 21 14:15:34 <Betelgeuse>	Is there any benefit for direct stocks and shares donations instead of the donor converting them to cash first?
Dec 21 14:15:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, not to us, no.
Dec 21 14:16:17 <NeddySeagoon>	Bitcoin values vary considerably ...
Dec 21 14:16:24 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: I was mainly asking from donor perspective
Dec 21 14:17:42 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, I don't know the tax laws well enough to comment.  We need a USA member 
Dec 21 14:18:13 <SwifT>	not only tax laws, but we also need a more worked out suggestion than just "please accept bitcoin"
Dec 21 14:18:23 <NeddySeagoon>	ping Guest21526 
Dec 21 14:19:10 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, exactly.  Thats why we opted to discourage it when it was last discussed
Dec 21 14:19:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets wove on ... we cannot resolve it today
Dec 21 14:20:00 <NeddySeagoon>	move*
Dec 21 14:20:50 <Betelgeuse>	agreed
Dec 21 14:21:06 <NeddySeagoon>	bug 530480
Dec 21 14:21:08 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/530480 "Funding Request: Upgrades & Shipping for Hyves donated servers"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; robbat2:trustees
Dec 21 14:21:56 <NeddySeagoon>	That seems to be going OK - no immediate action required from us, unless you know differently
Dec 21 14:22:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup ...
Dec 21 14:22:54 <Betelgeuse>	The upgrades were already paid for
Dec 21 14:23:11 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Dec 21 14:23:19 <NeddySeagoon>	 Date of Next Meeting - 18 Jan 2015 19:00 UTC  
Dec 21 14:23:56 <SwifT>	probably ok for me, I'm on a weekend trip then but probably back by 19UTC
Dec 21 14:24:07 <Betelgeuse>	ok
Dec 21 14:24:20 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm OK
Dec 21 14:24:23 <NeddySeagoon>	 Who will post the log? Minutes? ... I nominate dabbott 
Dec 21 14:24:25 <dabbott>	I got the log, minutes etc, also will start the new agenda for Jan
Dec 21 14:24:43 <dabbott>	:) hi everyone
Dec 21 14:24:45 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe ... well timed David
Dec 21 14:24:53 <dabbott>	I was waiting
Dec 21 14:24:59 <dabbott>	heh
Dec 21 14:25:12 <SwifT>	;)
Dec 21 14:25:12 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business
Dec 21 14:25:57 <Betelgeuse>	none here
Dec 21 14:26:05 <SwifT>	nope
Dec 21 14:26:14 <NeddySeagoon>	I have two things that I wrote to the alias about ... it looks like we dropped the ball but another month won't hurt.
Dec 21 14:26:49 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: Did we have any membership business? I remember emails but maybe it was already for the last one.
Dec 21 14:27:20 <dabbott>	afair it was for the last meeting
Dec 21 14:27:47 <Betelgeuse>	yeah confirmed by inbox
Dec 21 14:27:52 <Betelgeuse>	sorry about the noise
Dec 21 14:27:54 <NeddySeagoon>	One of them wos OVH Gentoo - thas a sore in the side of the French forum. The other was a trademark violation - someone wrapping Gentoo docs vint ads
Dec 21 14:29:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets get it on the Jan agenda and give everyone a chance to read the email threads
Dec 21 14:29:11 <Betelgeuse>	sounds good
Dec 21 14:29:36 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ...
Dec 21 14:30:13 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: send an email to the alias with the agenda info and I will add it
Dec 21 14:30:18 <NeddySeagoon>	That should have been Open Floor
Dec 21 14:30:30 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, ok
Dec 21 14:31:19 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
