Jul 20 15:01:13 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the July 20 meeting of the Gentoo Foundation Board of Trustees
Jul 20 15:01:18 <Betelgeuse>	hello
Jul 20 15:01:20 <quantumsummers>	we'll just stick with a curling team
Jul 20 15:01:20 <NeddySeagoon>	roll call
Jul 20 15:01:25 <Betelgeuse>	here
Jul 20 15:01:27 <dabbott>	here
Jul 20 15:01:29 <SwifT>	here
Jul 20 15:01:30 <quantumsummers>	here
Jul 20 15:01:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats everyone, so lets start.
Jul 20 15:02:37 <NeddySeagoon>	1. Activity Tracker  ... Officers reports are due for tho AGM next month.  I think thats all
Jul 20 15:03:12 <NeddySeagoon>	2. Infra Funding (Infrastructure Liaison Officer) 
Jul 20 15:03:53 <quantumsummers>	I am rather conflicted about this
Jul 20 15:04:11 <NeddySeagoon>	Since we don't do employees, its my opinion that we need to formalise the Infrastructure Liaison Officer  Office in our bylaws
Jul 20 15:04:33 <quantumsummers>	I think I understand the reasoning behind it, however there are a couple issues:
Jul 20 15:04:37 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, please share
Jul 20 15:05:13 <Betelgeuse>	Don't the bylaws get registered by the state etc.?
Jul 20 15:05:20 <Betelgeuse>	So there are fees involved.
Jul 20 15:05:24 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, No
Jul 20 15:05:35 <quantumsummers>	no fees
Jul 20 15:05:58 <quantumsummers>	it seems like we would have to potentially modify the bylaws for any officer position we want in the future
Jul 20 15:06:29 <quantumsummers>	I know the bylaws allow us to have vacant officer positions, and/or more than one position held by one person
Jul 20 15:06:55 <quantumsummers>	I guess this seems more like a duty (proper), than a position unto itself
Jul 20 15:07:08 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, we don't have to but the Office terms op reference would anly be captured in the IRC log and be difficult to fing otherwise
Jul 20 15:07:10 <quantumsummers>	i.e. we could say that this is the duty of the assistant treasurer
Jul 20 15:07:53 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: we could remedy that with a webpage outlining who does what. That, to me, would be esaier than changing the bylaws
Jul 20 15:08:20 <NeddySeagoon>	The assistant treasurer has much more scope than -infra liason
Jul 20 15:08:25 <Betelgeuse>	The bylaws already allow to appoint officers as we wish
Jul 20 15:09:08 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, that works - it can be added to the Foundation webspace
Jul 20 15:09:09 <Betelgeuse>	"and such other officers and assistant officers and agents as may be deemed necessary may be elected or appointed by the Board of Trustees from time to time."
Jul 20 15:09:30 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: we should likely have done that awhile back :)
Jul 20 15:09:51 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse: right, so we can appoint roles without defining them in the bylaws
Jul 20 15:10:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse,  yes.  I am concerned with the score of the office betng lost or not easy to find
Jul 20 15:10:04 <dabbott>	sounds good to me
Jul 20 15:10:27 <quantumsummers>	dabbott, SwifT have we moved most/all foundation stuff to the wiki now?
Jul 20 15:10:39 <NeddySeagoon>	WFM.  We need the form of words then
Jul 20 15:10:47 <SwifT>	dabbott did all of that; most of it is moved to the wiki afaik
Jul 20 15:10:50 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: Say we appointed someone to run one conference for the foundation. Would we change the bylaws to make that an officer job? Basically where do we draw the line.
Jul 20 15:11:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, We might but as you have pointed out, we are not required to
Jul 20 15:12:04 <dabbott>	we have a foundation namespace for the wiki, anything new or edited often I have moved, the bylaws are in g.o
Jul 20 15:12:23 <quantumsummers>	I think we just need to document the officers and their roles on the wiki. We should not worry about changing the bylaws for this, as the power is already granted to do what we need without altering the bylaws
Jul 20 15:12:30 <NeddySeagoon>	The web page with the terms of reference for the office works for me
Jul 20 15:12:45 <quantumsummers>	cool, it should be flexible for us
Jul 20 15:12:52 <dabbott>	the foundation namespace pages are restricted afaik
Jul 20 15:13:07 <NeddySeagoon>	I hope so.
Jul 20 15:13:14 <quantumsummers>	we need, now, to organize who does what around here in terms of the officer roles
Jul 20 15:13:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Is the form of words I proposed OK ?
Jul 20 15:14:03 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: yes, that wording works for me
Jul 20 15:14:05 <NeddySeagoon>	        The infra liaison officer shall be responsible for the annual budget allocated to Gentoo infrastructure maintenance, as determined from time to time by the board. 
Jul 20 15:14:05 <NeddySeagoon>	        The infra liaison officer shall have the authority incur costs and to pay invoices properly incurred for Gentoo infrastructure maintenance without further reference to the board, up to the annual budget value. Receipts for all costs incurred shall be submitted to the Treasurer in a timely manner. 
Jul 20 15:14:05 <NeddySeagoon>	        The payment methods made available to the infrastructure liaison officer shall be determined by the board from time to time. 
Jul 20 15:14:05 <NeddySeagoon>	        The infrastructure lead will generally hold this office but the board may appoint an infrastructure team member other than the lead. 
Jul 20 15:14:38 <SwifT>	yes, that wording is ok to me too
Jul 20 15:14:42 <dabbott>	we need to do all positions, lets get started on email and then I can move it to the wiki when it is finished
Jul 20 15:15:00 <quantumsummers>	I might change it to say "responsible for managing the annual budget allocated for Gentoo infrastructure ..."
Jul 20 15:15:10 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: sure thing
Jul 20 15:15:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion to adopt the above for a wiki page definging  Infrastructure Liaison Officer 
Jul 20 15:15:28 <quantumsummers>	seconded
Jul 20 15:15:41 <NeddySeagoon>	Vote please
Jul 20 15:15:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Aye
Jul 20 15:15:47 <quantumsummers>	aye
Jul 20 15:15:47 <SwifT>	aye
Jul 20 15:15:50 <dabbott>	aye
Jul 20 15:16:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ?
Jul 20 15:16:19 <Betelgeuse>	yes
Jul 20 15:16:20 <quantumsummers>	hmm, looks like I have to disappear in a sec, nap time is __over__
Jul 20 15:16:22 <Betelgeuse>	ayey
Jul 20 15:16:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Carried.
Jul 20 15:16:51 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, can you mane it happen please.
Jul 20 15:16:57 <dabbott>	sure
Jul 20 15:17:03 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Jul 20 15:17:09 <quantumsummers>	I'll email ... sorry :(
Jul 20 15:17:49 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, no problem ... and its going to get 50% worse too
Jul 20 15:18:26 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: I will send a email to trustees@ so we can add the wording for all officer positions
Jul 20 15:18:27 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Gentoo Trademark License Agreement update
Jul 20 15:19:36 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, OK - The others are in the bylaws already.  Some officers and duties are prescribed by NM Statuate
Jul 20 15:19:59 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, ??
Jul 20 15:20:06 <SwifT>	only excuses from my part - i wanted to update the gentoo trademark license agreement by this meeting but couldn't 
Jul 20 15:20:18 <SwifT>	update = only mention gentoo foundation, inc. and not gentoo e.v.
Jul 20 15:20:36 <SwifT>	it's on my prio list for when i'm back
Jul 20 15:20:40 <NeddySeagoon>	Seems straight forward.
Jul 20 15:20:53 <SwifT>	i will send it out through e-mail once done
Jul 20 15:20:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugs
Jul 20 15:21:17 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: you forgot the election
Jul 20 15:21:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need to consider any today ?
Jul 20 15:21:42 <dabbott>	no new bugs
Jul 20 15:21:45 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Oops, sorry 
Jul 20 15:22:01 <NeddySeagoon>	3. Trustee Election ...  dabbott 
Jul 20 15:23:13 <dabbott>	No election as only two nominees so NeddySeagoon and antarus are in for the next two years, congrats
Jul 20 15:23:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Thank you and thanks to the election offcials too
Jul 20 15:24:02 <dabbott>	I am going to stay on as secretary 
Jul 20 15:24:24 <dabbott>	with a raise of course
Jul 20 15:24:30 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I'm pleased to hear that
Jul 20 15:24:37 <SwifT>	at least 25% raise ;)
Jul 20 15:24:42 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: I approve multiplying the current salary by 2
Jul 20 15:24:50 <SwifT>	=)
Jul 20 15:24:53 <NeddySeagoon>	Sure I thinx we can double your salary
Jul 20 15:25:29 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business
Jul 20 15:25:51 <NeddySeagoon>	Membership Applications
Jul 20 15:25:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Tom Gall
Jul 20 15:26:04 <NeddySeagoon>	I vote Aye
Jul 20 15:26:07 <Betelgeuse>	aye
Jul 20 15:26:10 <dabbott>	yes
Jul 20 15:26:25 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, ?
Jul 20 15:26:43 <SwifT>	aye of course
Jul 20 15:26:47 <dabbott>	nice to have him back, I will send him the email
Jul 20 15:26:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Carried
Jul 20 15:27:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks dabbott 
Jul 20 15:27:16 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup
Jul 20 15:27:26 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 17 Aug (AGM) 2014 19:00 UTC 
Jul 20 15:27:38 <SwifT>	wfm
Jul 20 15:27:47 <NeddySeagoon>	This is our AGM Normal business is suspended
Jul 20 15:27:57 <dabbott>	fine here
Jul 20 15:28:31 <NeddySeagoon>	We will receive officers reports and welcome our new Trustee.
Jul 20 15:28:56 <Betelgeuse>	ok
Jul 20 15:29:02 <SwifT>	great
Jul 20 15:29:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ?
Jul 20 15:29:34 <NeddySeagoon>	None from me
Jul 20 15:29:49 <SwifT>	none from me either
Jul 20 15:29:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ?
Jul 20 15:29:58 <dabbott>	noone here
Jul 20 15:30:19 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: mone
Jul 20 15:30:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks.
Jul 20 15:30:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Responsibilities ...
Jul 20 15:30:35 <dabbott>	I will do the log, minutes and the motion
Jul 20 15:30:46 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, it looks like its all yours
Jul 20 15:30:54 <NeddySeagoon>	thank you
Jul 20 15:31:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor
Jul 20 15:31:25 *	NeddySeagoon listens to the Russian Thistle
Jul 20 15:32:42 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the virtual gavel to close the meeting
