Oct 19 15:00:08 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open tho Oct 2014 Trustees meeting
Oct 19 15:00:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call
Oct 19 15:01:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ?
Oct 19 15:02:43 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: hello
Oct 19 15:03:17 <NeddySeagoon>	Hi Betelgeuse , when swift gets back we will have a quorum
Oct 19 15:05:34 *	robbat2 waves
Oct 19 15:05:38 <SwifT>	i'm here
Oct 19 15:06:10 <NeddySeagoon>	Ok, lets go - we have 3 out of 5
Oct 19 15:06:21 *	dabbott o/
Oct 19 15:06:37 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, are you logging?
Oct 19 15:06:48 <dabbott>	yes on it :)
Oct 19 15:07:36 <NeddySeagoon>	Activity tracker.  Our IRS Return 990 is due next month#
Oct 19 15:08:09 <NeddySeagoon>	as is our Annual Report - New Mexico
Oct 19 15:08:42 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Are those yours or Matts?
Oct 19 15:09:05 <dabbott>	Matt did them last year
Oct 19 15:09:43 <NeddySeagoon>	As hes not here a reminder email is probably in order
Oct 19 15:09:55 <dabbott>	for sure the 990, I could do the annual report but its better if he pays from the foundation funds
Oct 19 15:10:08 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, yep
Oct 19 15:10:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse,    Gentoo Copyright Policy  any update ?
Oct 19 15:11:28 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: nope, sorry
Oct 19 15:11:55 <Betelgeuse>	Need to get some personal business out of the way before that can continue
Oct 19 15:12:01 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers isn't here, so we will skip his bits
Oct 19 15:12:17 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, sure  RL comes first
Oct 19 15:12:58 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Gentoo Trademark License Agreement ... any feedback from the lists?
Oct 19 15:13:15 <SwifT>	on the trademark, I'm discussing the idea of having a cooperative trademark with Gentoo e.V. through/with Sebastian Pipping
Oct 19 15:13:29 <SwifT>	it's not through the mailinglist, usually by call and e-mail
Oct 19 15:13:47 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Thats worthwhile progress.
Oct 19 15:13:50 <SwifT>	I try to send updates to trustees@gentoo.org when some steps are taken as a way to "docuemt" things
Oct 19 15:14:09 *	ChanServ gives voice to fuzzyray
Oct 19 15:14:18 <NeddySeagoon>	That works.  Are there any big disagreements?
Oct 19 15:14:19 <SwifT>	yes, I'm glad things are progressing on this side. I saw I got a mailfrom sping today so might have more info tomorrow or so
Oct 19 15:14:35 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Oct 19 15:15:00 <SwifT>	we're still in the "discovery" phase. there are some differences between the Gentoo e.V. one and ours, but that doesn't mean that Gentoo e.V. is against the draft we have (which is more liberal than tehirs right now)
Oct 19 15:15:01 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugs  I'm not aware of anything pressing
Oct 19 15:15:52 <SwifT>	Betelgeuse: on the copyright stuff, shall I send my remarks to you directly or is there a bug to comment on? 
Oct 19 15:16:03 <SwifT>	Betelgeuse: it's mainly to answer your open question on docs
Oct 19 15:16:05 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, they have to comply with EU law and we have US law.  We can sill have a common policy though
Oct 19 15:16:23 <SwifT>	NeddySeagoon: yes, I don'tthink law will be a problem
Oct 19 15:16:38 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: No bug. 
Oct 19 15:16:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Anyone want to go through the bugs?
Oct 19 15:17:06 <SwifT>	NeddySeagoon: no
Oct 19 15:17:13 <Betelgeuse>	I think at the very least we should cross license
Oct 19 15:17:16 <Betelgeuse>	the trademarks
Oct 19 15:17:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, yes, that will formalise the way we work.  
Oct 19 15:17:56 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business ... there is not.
Oct 19 15:18:00 <NeddySeagoon>	none*
Oct 19 15:18:14 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 16 Nov 2014 19:00 UTC 
Oct 19 15:18:32 <NeddySeagoon>	WFM - we will be on UTC then
Oct 19 15:19:11 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Betelgeuse ^^
Oct 19 15:19:24 <SwifT>	lemme quickly check my agenda
Oct 19 15:19:24 <Betelgeuse>	wfm
Oct 19 15:20:00 <dabbott>	Can everyone send there current address to @trustess for the annual report, we will need alex's also 
Oct 19 15:20:08 <SwifT>	looks to work forme
Oct 19 15:20:33 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I did that a few weeks ago.
Oct 19 15:20:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ...
Oct 19 15:20:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Nothing from me
Oct 19 15:21:33 <SwifT>	dabbott: if you can't find the addresses, can  you mail trustees@ so we can just reply to that (instead of creating single, individual e-mail threads for each address ;-) ?
Oct 19 15:21:50 <Betelgeuse>	I already emailed
Oct 19 15:21:54 <Betelgeuse>	You can reply to that
Oct 19 15:22:02 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, AoB ?
Oct 19 15:22:03 <SwifT>	yeah, just noticed
Oct 19 15:22:14 <Betelgeuse>	no AoB from me
Oct 19 15:22:20 <SwifT>	no other B from me
Oct 19 15:22:39 <NeddySeagoon>	Responsibilities .. dabbott all yours :)
Oct 19 15:22:48 <dabbott>	ok
Oct 19 15:22:51 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor ...
Oct 19 15:23:59 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the Oct 2014 Trustees meeting
