Feb 23 14:00:38 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the virtual gavel to open the Feb 2014 Gentoo Foundation Trustees meeting
Feb 23 14:00:50 <NeddySeagoon>	roll call
Feb 23 14:01:02 <dabbott>	over here o/
Feb 23 14:01:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, quantumsummers 
Feb 23 14:02:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Hmm I'm missing one
Feb 23 14:02:24 <dabbott>	Finland won Betelgeuse may be awol
Feb 23 14:02:30 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe
Feb 23 14:02:31 <dabbott>	swift is not here
Feb 23 14:02:48 <NeddySeagoon>	thats the one
Feb 23 14:02:54 <dabbott>	I checked #gentoo-doc also
Feb 23 14:03:02 <quantumsummers>	hey there
Feb 23 14:03:09 <dabbott>	hi quantumsummers 
Feb 23 14:03:11 <quantumsummers>	hello
Feb 23 14:03:13 <quantumsummers>	:)
Feb 23 14:03:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Hi quantumsummers we have a quorum lets go
Feb 23 14:03:57 <NeddySeagoon>	My logger is here but after all the DDoS I don't know what its doing
Feb 23 14:04:01 <quantumsummers>	hi NeddySeagoon
Feb 23 14:04:12 <dabbott>	i am logging 
Feb 23 14:04:27 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks dabbott 
Feb 23 14:04:39 <dabbott>	I went with calvino.freenode.net its been working
Feb 23 14:04:44 <NeddySeagoon>	1. Treasurer Report quantumsummers ? 
Feb 23 14:04:51 <quantumsummers>	yessir
Feb 23 14:04:56 <quantumsummers>	sending now
Feb 23 14:05:40 <quantumsummers>	sent
Feb 23 14:05:59 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I am about finished with the 1st and 2nd Q for this fiscal year as well
Feb 23 14:06:28 <NeddySeagoon>	I would like to hold off the vote until we have 3 without yourself quantumsummers 
Feb 23 14:06:33 <quantumsummers>	I've finished paypal and ING, just need one more cap1 statement to finish that
Feb 23 14:06:52 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: that's fine, no biggie, at least you can see where we are
Feb 23 14:07:06 <dabbott>	been getting anything from the store?
Feb 23 14:07:25 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: yes, twice a year we get a disbursement from cafepress
Feb 23 14:07:32 <quantumsummers>	usually ~300 or so
Feb 23 14:07:37 <quantumsummers>	buckaroos, that is
Feb 23 14:07:40 <quantumsummers>	(USD)
Feb 23 14:08:15 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, looks nice and tidy.  We will hold the vote in March
Feb 23 14:08:21 <quantumsummers>	ok
Feb 23 14:08:27 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: check ING credits doesnt line up with total
Feb 23 14:08:35 <quantumsummers>	lemme lool
Feb 23 14:08:38 <quantumsummers>	look!
Feb 23 14:08:38 <NeddySeagoon>	No fees to the CPA ?
Feb 23 14:08:44 <quantumsummers>	not from that year
Feb 23 14:08:52 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Feb 23 14:09:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Is there anything to discuss on the report ?
Feb 23 14:09:45 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: good eye, I didn;t copy correctly, fixed and resending
Feb 23 14:10:10 <dabbott>	ok should be 7263.46 Credits
Feb 23 14:10:17 <NeddySeagoon>	Foundation Activity Tracker.  Nothing pending
Feb 23 14:10:54 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: fixed and resent
Feb 23 14:11:00 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: looks fine till election
Feb 23 14:11:13 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Feb 23 14:11:17 <quantumsummers>	I have an actual monthly workflow now to get all our financial info
Feb 23 14:11:21 <quantumsummers>	each month, that is
Feb 23 14:11:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Quarterly Financial Statements - dabbott 
Feb 23 14:11:33 <quantumsummers>	so, we can easily do quarterlies or monthlys
Feb 23 14:11:52 <quantumsummers>	dabbott is waiting on my data for the Quarterly
Feb 23 14:12:05 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, that needs to be captured somewhere
Feb 23 14:12:32 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers  Financial | Legal Status ...
Feb 23 14:12:32 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: all here https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Foundation:Gentoo_Foundation_Finances
Feb 23 14:12:37 <quantumsummers>	I have it all here, I requested a git repo which we have, I was not able to get _robbat2|irssi to ack on the PDF blobs
Feb 23 14:12:52 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, ok
Feb 23 14:13:20 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I've bookmarked that page
Feb 23 14:13:51 <dabbott>	I transfered the old stuff best I could
Feb 23 14:14:00 <quantumsummers>	looks good to me
Feb 23 14:14:26 <dabbott>	only missing 2013 and 2014 to be complete :)
Feb 23 14:14:26 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, as long as the old stuff is kept somewhere
Feb 23 14:14:44 <quantumsummers>	what I have is all the data and statements
Feb 23 14:14:44 <dabbott>	still on guide xml
Feb 23 14:15:00 <NeddySeagoon>	thats fine
Feb 23 14:15:03 <quantumsummers>	nicely paypal has a monthly statement generator now
Feb 23 14:15:09 <quantumsummers>	so I can pdf that too
Feb 23 14:15:22 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers  Financial | Legal Status ...
Feb 23 14:15:35 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: no changes there
Feb 23 14:15:46 <NeddySeagoon>	thats fine
Feb 23 14:15:54 <NeddySeagoon>	CPA ?
Feb 23 14:16:01 <quantumsummers>	nothing to report there either
Feb 23 14:16:25 <quantumsummers>	we will begin the tax prep stuff in July
Feb 23 14:16:26 <NeddySeagoon>	and 501(c)(3) registration status ?
Feb 23 14:16:41 <quantumsummers>	I have not received anything re: status
Feb 23 14:16:50 <quantumsummers>	Need to call or something
Feb 23 14:17:01 <NeddySeagoon>	is the IRS still blocking OSS applications?
Feb 23 14:17:19 <quantumsummers>	I'm not too sure what is happening with the blocks
Feb 23 14:17:30 <quantumsummers>	I read about some new rules in review awhile back
Feb 23 14:17:48 <quantumsummers>	as in they were trying to figure out what to do going forward
Feb 23 14:18:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Ah ok.  Well you will be closer to it than me (about 3500 miles closer)  :)
Feb 23 14:18:17 <dabbott>	On the foundation mail list some are saying their applications are moving along
Feb 23 14:18:19 <quantumsummers>	:)
Feb 23 14:18:55 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I've seen some rejections ... I guess thats movement
Feb 23 14:19:49 <NeddySeagoon>	swift isn't here so we will pass on    Gentoo Trademark License Agreement
Feb 23 14:19:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugs ...
Feb 23 14:20:26 <quantumsummers>	bug 500450 needs a vote
Feb 23 14:20:28 <willikins>	quantumsummers: https://bugs.gentoo.org/500450 "Use of Gentoo Foundation on official paperwork for a donation of equipment for ZFS development"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; ryao:trustees
Feb 23 14:21:55 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm good with this.  The equipment will belong to the foundation in the normal way
Feb 23 14:22:15 <quantumsummers>	That is three "Aye" votes
Feb 23 14:22:29 <dabbott>	Motion: Gentoo Foundation will accept a donation of equipment for ZFS development
Feb 23 14:22:32 <NeddySeagoon>	The foundation can move it around to make best use of it
Feb 23 14:22:33 <quantumsummers>	seconded
Feb 23 14:22:42 <NeddySeagoon>	vote ..
Feb 23 14:22:43 <dabbott>	aye
Feb 23 14:22:44 <NeddySeagoon>	Aye
Feb 23 14:22:45 <quantumsummers>	aye
Feb 23 14:22:51 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Feb 23 14:22:59 <quantumsummers>	I'll update the bug.\
Feb 23 14:23:08 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Feb 23 14:23:10 <dabbott>	done I will update the motion page
Feb 23 14:23:14 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: do you want to handle the paperwork or would like me to?
Feb 23 14:23:47 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: it may just be paperwork on their end
Feb 23 14:23:52 <dabbott>	if you could and do theos at the same time I can see what you did for next time
Feb 23 14:24:33 <quantumsummers>	sure
Feb 23 14:24:35 <quantumsummers>	no prob
Feb 23 14:24:40 <dabbott>	I think they just wanted to say it was donated to the foundation on thier paper work
Feb 23 14:24:46 <quantumsummers>	I'm doing Theo's thing tonight anyway
Feb 23 14:24:47 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need to review any other bugs today ?
Feb 23 14:24:58 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: not that I can see.
Feb 23 14:24:58 <dabbott>	no
Feb 23 14:25:10 <NeddySeagoon>	Fine ... lets move on
Feb 23 14:25:11 <quantumsummers>	The new dev from Iran bit is a settled issue IMO
Feb 23 14:25:32 <quantumsummers>	looks like I should close some of these old bugs too
Feb 23 14:25:56 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, yep ... until the embargo laws change
Feb 23 14:26:05 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 16 Mar 2014 19:00 UTC 
Feb 23 14:26:14 <NeddySeagoon>	WFM
Feb 23 14:26:15 <dabbott>	fine here
Feb 23 14:26:20 <quantumsummers>	looks ok
Feb 23 14:26:37 <quantumsummers>	I think now that my kids are more autonomous I should be more available at meetings from now on, Yay!
Feb 23 14:26:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business     I have some ...
Feb 23 14:26:52 <dabbott>	do we need to do anything about Bareos
Feb 23 14:26:53 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: proceed sir.
Feb 23 14:27:02 <NeddySeagoon>	 more autonomous ... -> into everything ?
Feb 23 14:27:14 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: heh
Feb 23 14:27:20 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: the bareos thing, yes
Feb 23 14:27:52 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: you first
Feb 23 14:27:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Re the email on the backup software and robbat2s proposed response.
Feb 23 14:28:05 <quantumsummers>	ah good
Feb 23 14:28:10 <quantumsummers>	yeah, I agree with Robin on this
Feb 23 14:28:18 <dabbott>	we have RESTRICT=mirror in the ebuild do we need point out to this guy that we aren't distributing the Bareos source at all
Feb 23 14:28:26 <quantumsummers>	we are not mirroring and have restricted that in the ebuild, so that is that
Feb 23 14:28:32 <quantumsummers>	echo ... :D
Feb 23 14:28:40 <dabbott>	im slow :)
Feb 23 14:28:47 <quantumsummers>	I echo'd you!
Feb 23 14:28:50 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: want to do the email there?
Feb 23 14:28:50 <NeddySeagoon>	The resposne looks good be it could do with some flesh on the bones 
Feb 23 14:29:07 <quantumsummers>	or NeddySeagoon, feel free to fatten that calf
Feb 23 14:29:09 <dabbott>	ok I will send him an email 
Feb 23 14:29:21 <quantumsummers>	it should sound friendly :D
Feb 23 14:29:58 <dabbott>	I will run it by trustees first
Feb 23 14:30:08 <NeddySeagoon>	WE need to explain what these options do and that they are a part of our packaging system, so its just normal pratice
Feb 23 14:30:14 <dabbott>	basicly just what Robin said
Feb 23 14:30:33 <quantumsummers>	sounds reasonable
Feb 23 14:30:53 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, assume he is not a Gontoo user.  He neds to understand the tech bits
Feb 23 14:31:10 <dabbott>	got it little ebuild lesson 
Feb 23 14:31:25 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: just send a draft around when you have it :)
Feb 23 14:31:34 <NeddySeagoon>	and he needs to understand the process is not special for this case
Feb 23 14:31:37 <dabbott>	will do
Feb 23 14:32:23 <NeddySeagoon>	yeah, thats a good idea. Circulate to t@g.o
Feb 23 14:32:43 <NeddySeagoon>	That was my other business
Feb 23 14:33:51 <NeddySeagoon>	any more other business ?
Feb 23 14:33:51 <quantumsummers>	ok
Feb 23 14:33:58 <quantumsummers>	not from me (surprised?)
Feb 23 14:34:03 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe
Feb 23 14:34:29 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, ?
Feb 23 14:34:38 <dabbott>	none here
Feb 23 14:35:10 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, it looks like you have picked up the Responsibilities too
Feb 23 14:35:15 <dabbott>	I will do the log, minutes and update the motions page
Feb 23 14:35:23 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Feb 23 14:35:32 <dabbott>	np I do it all the same time
Feb 23 14:35:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor ...
Feb 23 14:36:11 <jmbsvicetto>	NeddySeagoon: I don't have any proposal yet, but I'm going to submit a proposal about the releng build box
Feb 23 14:36:27 <NeddySeagoon>	jmbsvicetto, Sure
Feb 23 14:36:33 <quantumsummers>	sounds good jmbsvicetto, looking forward to reading it
Feb 23 14:37:03 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
