Jun 15 14:59:41 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll Call
Jun 15 14:59:47 <dabbott>	here
Jun 15 14:59:49 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: lol
Jun 15 14:59:50 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to quantumsummers2
Jun 15 14:59:51 <SwifT>	here
Jun 15 14:59:51 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: here
Jun 15 14:59:51 *	NeddySeagoon is here
Jun 15 15:00:05 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats 4
Jun 15 15:00:08 <quantumsummers2>	hello folks
Jun 15 15:00:20 <dabbott>	hi quantumsummers 
Jun 15 15:00:23 <quantumsummers2>	I am not authd
Jun 15 15:00:33 <NeddySeagoon>	5 out of 5 on Fathers day too
Jun 15 15:00:56 <quantumsummers2>	I'm at a FAM functio. on my phone
Jun 15 15:01:20 <NeddySeagoon>	Logging ?  I have no idea if my logger is still running
Jun 15 15:01:26 <dabbott>	I got it
Jun 15 15:01:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks
Jun 15 15:01:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 1.   Infra Funding (bugzilla, wiki, dev.g.o) 
Jun 15 15:02:36 <dabbott>	still getting info together quantumsummers has been working on it with infra
Jun 15 15:02:52 <NeddySeagoon>	OK moving on ...
Jun 15 15:02:58 <quantumsummers2>	yes
Jun 15 15:03:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Initiate Trustee Election
Jun 15 15:03:12 <dabbott>	done
Jun 15 15:03:25 <Betelgeuse>	for infra are we on top of things for the dl of the old servers going away?
Jun 15 15:03:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Looks OK but we need the results before 16 Aug
Jun 15 15:04:10 <quantumsummers2>	Betelgeuse yes on track
Jun 15 15:04:12 <dabbott>	The voting period is four weeks commencing, 14 Jul
Jun 15 15:04:17 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, from the email, infra are still looking for new sponsors
Jun 15 15:04:53 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, that should work.  If we need a voting period
Jun 15 15:04:55 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers2: great, thanks
Jun 15 15:05:26 <NeddySeagoon>	 3.    dabbotts member list
Jun 15 15:05:37 <dabbott>	https://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/20140614_member_list.xml
Jun 15 15:05:41 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll fix the +V list here
Jun 15 15:05:55 <dabbott>	I got with jmbsvicetto and quantumsummers that should be good
Jun 15 15:06:11 <quantumsummers2>	yep on track there
Jun 15 15:06:39 <NeddySeagoon>	WE need to fix  -forums-announce, so we can send the legal notices
Jun 15 15:06:54 <NeddySeagoon>	foundations*
Jun 15 15:06:58 <robbat2>	what's broken with it?
Jun 15 15:07:05 <robbat2>	or do you just mean add new emails
Jun 15 15:07:32 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, it needs to be updated for the revised members list
Jun 15 15:07:40 <robbat2>	that's not broken
Jun 15 15:07:46 <robbat2>	thats just out of date ;-)
Jun 15 15:07:49 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, add/remove...
Jun 15 15:07:55 <NeddySeagoon>	hehe
Jun 15 15:08:01 <robbat2>	is that member list page the final one?
Jun 15 15:08:10 <dabbott>	yes
Jun 15 15:08:12 <robbat2>	if so, i'll update the subs now
Jun 15 15:08:20 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks robbat2 
Jun 15 15:08:36 <dabbott>	only 3 non developer emails
Jun 15 15:08:43 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, your stuff
Jun 15 15:09:21 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, do you want a bye as you are on a phone?
Jun 15 15:09:22 <quantumsummers2>	nothing save prepping for taxes coming up end of june
Jun 15 15:10:00 <quantumsummers2>	probably not able to go into detail... not that there is much.
Jun 15 15:10:06 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Gentoo Trademark License Agreement   you have the floor
Jun 15 15:10:42 <SwifT>	I didn't receive any feedback from the gentoo e.v. side to try and have a common license, so I'll update the draft document to focus only on gentoo foundation side
Jun 15 15:10:57 <SwifT>	i'll do that later and send the revised draft to gentoo-nfp 
Jun 15 15:11:22 <SwifT>	that's it
Jun 15 15:11:36 <NeddySeagoon>	thank you.
Jun 15 15:11:46 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugs
Jun 15 15:12:05 <dabbott>	I don't see anything new
Jun 15 15:12:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Is there any bug we need to discuss now ?
Jun 15 15:13:02 <SwifT>	don't think so
Jun 15 15:13:03 <dabbott>	no
Jun 15 15:13:39 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business ... there seems to be none.
Jun 15 15:14:01 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup ...
Jun 15 15:14:11 <SwifT>	do we need to do anything on a3li's request to exit membership? or is that already done?
Jun 15 15:14:24 <dabbott>	thats done
Jun 15 15:14:30 <SwifT>	ok, ignore me then
Jun 15 15:14:30 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 20 July 2014 19:00 UTC
Jun 15 15:14:37 <dabbott>	fine here
Jun 15 15:14:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Works for me
Jun 15 15:14:42 <SwifT>	ok here
Jun 15 15:14:58 <SwifT>	oh wait, i'm on holiday then
Jun 15 15:15:17 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, Betelgeuse ?
Jun 15 15:15:18 <SwifT>	doesn't mean I can't join in (there's Internet where I go, it's a primary requirement here ;) but no guarantees yet
Jun 15 15:16:03 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: let me check
Jun 15 15:16:14 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: wfm
Jun 15 15:16:15 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, heh -  when we go away, its a primary requirement that there is no internet :)
Jun 15 15:16:18 <quantumsummers2>	should be fine
Jun 15 15:16:42 <NeddySeagoon>	OK, we have 3 and a maybe for 20 Jul.
Jun 15 15:16:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ?
Jun 15 15:17:19 <NeddySeagoon>	I intend to stand for a 4th term 
Jun 15 15:18:07 <dabbott>	great :)
Jun 15 15:18:23 <SwifT>	good - the gravel banging would not sound proper without you :p
Jun 15 15:18:31 <NeddySeagoon>	AoB once more ...
Jun 15 15:18:38 <Betelgeuse>	no
Jun 15 15:18:43 <SwifT>	no ob here
Jun 15 15:18:51 <dabbott>	none here
Jun 15 15:18:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Responsibilities ...  Its just the log
Jun 15 15:19:02 <dabbott>	I got it
Jun 15 15:19:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks. dabbott 
Jun 15 15:19:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor
Jun 15 15:19:19 <dabbott>	no problem
Jun 15 15:20:45 *	NeddySeagoon pronouces the meeting closed
