May 18 14:59:00 *	quantumsummers starts the meeting with roll call
May 18 14:59:06 <dabbott>	here
May 18 14:59:08 <SwifT>	I'm here
May 18 14:59:17 <quantumsummers>	Neddyseagoon sends his regrets.
May 18 14:59:27 <quantumsummers>	is Betelgeuse around?
May 18 14:59:42 <quantumsummers>	well we have a quorum, so let's start
May 18 14:59:49 <dabbott>	he was an hour ago
May 18 14:59:50 <quantumsummers>	who is logging, dabbott ?
May 18 14:59:55 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: yes
May 18 14:59:56 <dabbott>	yep got it
May 18 15:00:01 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: thanks
May 18 15:00:04 <quantumsummers>	Hello Betelgeuse 
May 18 15:00:19 <quantumsummers>	ok, so Old Business
May 18 15:00:26 <quantumsummers>	Me first it appears
May 18 15:00:32 <quantumsummers>	Let's see
May 18 15:00:50 <quantumsummers>	Well we are prepared for our upcoming end of the fiscal year
May 18 15:00:56 <quantumsummers>	our finances are strong
May 18 15:00:59 <quantumsummers>	we have no debts
May 18 15:01:11 <quantumsummers>	That is all the news I have there
May 18 15:01:15 <quantumsummers>	questions/
May 18 15:01:16 <quantumsummers>	?
May 18 15:01:30 <quantumsummers>	ok
May 18 15:01:34 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: And everything with the US gov ok?
May 18 15:01:36 <dabbott>	did the cpa want any money
May 18 15:01:37 <quantumsummers>	SwifT: The trademark bit
May 18 15:01:52 <SwifT>	ok
May 18 15:01:55 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: not yet, I am certain they will invoice seprately for this year 
May 18 15:02:07 <SwifT>	I sent out a mail to the gentoo e.v. mailinglist to suggest cooperation on the trademark license document
May 18 15:02:21 <SwifT>	that was about one month ago, but I didn't receive any feedback yet
May 18 15:02:37 <SwifT>	I know a3li is interested but he has some (free) time issues
May 18 15:03:03 <quantumsummers>	ok. they are usually not super quick to have internal discussions
May 18 15:03:32 <SwifT>	it's not extremely urgent per se, but it would be nice to have the document updated between now and the summer or so
May 18 15:04:05 <SwifT>	that's it from me for this topic
May 18 15:04:21 <quantumsummers>	related, I plan to talk to our previous trademark attorneys this coming week to discuss a retainer. It should be relatively inexpensive given that the work is minimal
May 18 15:04:34 <quantumsummers>	Ok, any questions  for SwifT ?
May 18 15:04:59 <dabbott>	do you want me to keep the topic on the agenda for next month?
May 18 15:05:08 <SwifT>	yes please
May 18 15:05:18 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: thanks, good idea
May 18 15:05:51 <quantumsummers>	Ok, looking at our bugs, I don't see anything new there
May 18 15:06:01 <dabbott>	with the agenda now on the wiki you can edit the agenda when you want to, make it easy
May 18 15:06:13 <quantumsummers>	re: bug 500450
May 18 15:06:15 <willikins>	quantumsummers: https://bugs.gentoo.org/500450 "Use of Gentoo Foundation on official paperwork for a donation of equipment for ZFS development"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; ryao:trustees
May 18 15:06:25 <quantumsummers>	I have not heard anything back on that since February
May 18 15:06:41 <quantumsummers>	I'll add a new comment
May 18 15:07:49 <quantumsummers>	anyone have any bugs stuff to discuss?
May 18 15:07:55 <SwifT>	nope
May 18 15:08:02 <dabbott>	none here
May 18 15:08:13 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse ?
May 18 15:08:17 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: nope
May 18 15:08:21 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: robbat2 did
May 18 15:08:23 <Betelgeuse>	for open floor
May 18 15:08:29 <quantumsummers>	ok. moving right along
May 18 15:08:30 <robbat2>	yeah, i have open floor
May 18 15:08:33 <robbat2>	after your new business
May 18 15:08:39 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: ok, we'll be there shortly
May 18 15:08:55 <quantumsummers>	So, we have a single membership app from a developer Mikle Kolyada (zlogene)
May 18 15:09:09 <quantumsummers>	all in favor of his membership application state "aye"
May 18 15:09:13 <dabbott>	aye
May 18 15:09:16 <quantumsummers>	those opposed "nay"
May 18 15:09:17 <SwifT>	aye
May 18 15:09:27 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse ?
May 18 15:09:37 *	quantumsummers says aye
May 18 15:09:41 <Betelgeuse>	aye
May 18 15:09:44 <quantumsummers>	the aye's have it
May 18 15:09:47 <dabbott>	I added him to the master member list
May 18 15:09:55 <quantumsummers>	Welcome zlogene to Foundation membership
May 18 15:09:57 <quantumsummers>	thanks dabbott 
May 18 15:10:03 <dabbott>	I will send him an email
May 18 15:10:10 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: you are on the ball, thanks
May 18 15:10:28 <quantumsummers>	ok, date of next meeting 15 June 2014 19:00 UTC
May 18 15:10:31 <quantumsummers>	works for me
May 18 15:10:38 <dabbott>	fine here
May 18 15:10:49 <quantumsummers>	same bat time and bat channel
May 18 15:10:55 <Betelgeuse>	who handles the Gentoo calendar?
May 18 15:11:05 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse: do we have a calendar proper?
May 18 15:11:18 <quantumsummers>	in other words, I have no idea
May 18 15:11:18 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: there's an entry in the Gentoo Google calendar
May 18 15:11:22 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: it's for 18UTC
May 18 15:11:27 <Betelgeuse>	let me see if I can modify it
May 18 15:11:29 <quantumsummers>	that is wrong!!
May 18 15:11:32 <quantumsummers>	:D
May 18 15:11:33 <quantumsummers>	please do
May 18 15:11:41 <Betelgeuse>	I do not have access :(
May 18 15:11:48 <quantumsummers>	all meetings are always 1900 UTC since forever
May 18 15:11:48 <Betelgeuse>	The entry is created by comprookie2000@gmail.com
May 18 15:11:53 <quantumsummers>	that is dabbott 
May 18 15:12:01 <dabbott>	ping vapier I think its his calender
May 18 15:12:03 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: the timezone is probably wrong
May 18 15:12:08 <quantumsummers>	yeah
May 18 15:12:16 <quantumsummers>	ok, that should be an easy thing to fix up
May 18 15:12:23 <quantumsummers>	so, lets see ...
May 18 15:12:27 <robbat2>	you can create events with the UTC timezone, so it shifts automatically
May 18 15:12:28 <dabbott>	thats me let me se if I can fixer
May 18 15:12:47 <quantumsummers>	Thanks dabbott Any other business?
May 18 15:12:51 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: use Iceland Reykjavik
May 18 15:12:58 <quantumsummers>	Any other business:
May 18 15:13:02 <quantumsummers>	I have one item
May 18 15:13:04 <robbat2>	Betelgeuse, there is a real UTC timezone actually
May 18 15:13:11 <Betelgeuse>	robbat2: ok, good
May 18 15:13:19 <quantumsummers>	yes, its called "UTC" :D
May 18 15:13:24 <robbat2>	in gcal i mean
May 18 15:13:34 <Betelgeuse>	robbat2: they didn't always have it
May 18 15:13:48 <quantumsummers>	reason does prevail from time to time
May 18 15:13:53 <robbat2>	anyway, quantumsummers, your AoB
May 18 15:13:54 <quantumsummers>	glad they added it
May 18 15:13:56 <quantumsummers>	yes
May 18 15:14:22 <quantumsummers>	so, I am interested in doing a teespring campaign for Gentoo, specifically to put a dent in some soon-to-be-proposed infra spending
May 18 15:14:34 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I am hoping I can enlist PR to assist
May 18 15:14:35 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: what'a teespring?
May 18 15:14:40 <quantumsummers>	I see two paths
May 18 15:14:49 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse: lmgtfy
May 18 15:14:57 <quantumsummers>	its a t-shirt thing
May 18 15:15:12 <quantumsummers>	pretty good deal, I am happy with the quality of the shirts I have gotten from them
May 18 15:15:33 <quantumsummers>	basically, you set a minimim amount to sell, then sell as many as possible
May 18 15:15:40 <quantumsummers>	I think the abs min is 50
May 18 15:15:51 <quantumsummers>	Django just did one and sold like 500 shirts
May 18 15:16:03 <quantumsummers>	I believe they netted $10 a shirt
May 18 15:16:12 <quantumsummers>	teespring handles all shipping and handling
May 18 15:16:25 <dabbott>	sounds good, we need a design
May 18 15:16:28 <quantumsummers>	it's pretty easy, all via a web thing
May 18 15:16:35 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: that is what I want to talk with PR about
May 18 15:16:42 <quantumsummers>	also re: two paths
May 18 15:17:01 <quantumsummers>	we could use an existing logo deal or something like the if it moved compile it graphic
May 18 15:17:04 <quantumsummers>	OR
May 18 15:17:08 <quantumsummers>	we could have a design contest
May 18 15:17:27 <quantumsummers>	Since I do not know the infra timeline at the moment, I cannot say if we have time to do the contest
May 18 15:17:36 <dabbott>	The last contest was a flop
May 18 15:17:37 <robbat2>	that's actually my AoB ;-)
May 18 15:17:39 <quantumsummers>	I can easily get someone to assist with a design
May 18 15:17:46 <dabbott>	noone was interested
May 18 15:17:46 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: I thought that might be the case
May 18 15:17:52 <Betelgeuse>	It doesn't hurt to run one.
May 18 15:18:05 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse: if it wastes time, it would hurt
May 18 15:18:18 <quantumsummers>	that said, it doesn't have to be anything too fancy
May 18 15:18:21 <SwifT>	or work with a "This is our current suggested design - if you think you can do better, show us!"
May 18 15:18:26 <quantumsummers>	I have a couple ideas
May 18 15:18:29 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: Since time is limited you can have your contact work at th same time
May 18 15:18:31 <quantumsummers>	SwifT: I like that
May 18 15:18:39 <quantumsummers>	ok, seems reasonable
May 18 15:18:49 <quantumsummers>	I'll start the ball rolling tomorrow on that
May 18 15:18:59 <robbat2>	i don't think there will be time to run it entirely beforehand, but no reason not to run the projects concurrently
May 18 15:19:05 <quantumsummers>	perhaps we could leverage our newish social media power to get more involved
May 18 15:19:13 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: ok, sounds good.
May 18 15:19:17 <SwifT>	but tbh, if infra needs financial support for the services (which I'm all in favor for - I want planet.g.o back and guaranteed backups of everything ;) i'm sure we can also find direct donations for that as well (simultaneously with whatever we're launching)
May 18 15:19:18 <quantumsummers>	that is it for my AoB
May 18 15:19:22 <quantumsummers>	any other AoB?
May 18 15:19:50 <quantumsummers>	what happened to planet?
May 18 15:20:08 <SwifT>	server down according to infra-status.g.o
May 18 15:20:19 <quantumsummers>	SwifT: looks up to me
May 18 15:20:34 <quantumsummers>	anyway, lets get robbat2 in here as he has a hungry infant likely nearby
May 18 15:20:37 <SwifT>	ah cool... it's infra-status.g.o that's down now ;)
May 18 15:20:46 <SwifT>	yes
May 18 15:20:49 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: please, you have hte floor
May 18 15:20:55 <robbat2>	the sponsor of that box moved DC and lost our box for a while, due to bad tracking of ownership; then lost the box again due to paperwork falling through the cracks
May 18 15:21:00 <robbat2>	hi
May 18 15:21:06 <robbat2>	fed baby is sleeping on my chest now
May 18 15:21:12 <quantumsummers>	that is the best
May 18 15:21:17 <dabbott>	we need pictures :)
May 18 15:21:20 <quantumsummers>	congrats btw
May 18 15:21:21 <SwifT>	=)
May 18 15:21:36 <quantumsummers>	huge deal, that having a baby thing
May 18 15:21:44 <Betelgeuse>	robbat2: congrats!
May 18 15:21:46 *	SwifT is imagining robbat2 with his baby on his chest, with a hot laptop on that baby 
May 18 15:21:48 <quantumsummers>	my littlest just turned 1 the other day
May 18 15:21:54 <quantumsummers>	heh
May 18 15:22:18 <SwifT>	but enough diaper-talk, let's hear it ;)
May 18 15:22:20 <dabbott>	He going to get pretty good typing with one hand
May 18 15:22:33 <quantumsummers>	as if he isn't already
May 18 15:22:39 *	antarus snickers softly
May 18 15:22:51 <quantumsummers>	I bet he types faster with his eye lashes than I do with all my fingas
May 18 15:23:04 <dabbott>	antarus: your next :D
May 18 15:23:08 <quantumsummers>	back to the matter at hand
May 18 15:23:14 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: please continue
May 18 15:23:33 <robbat2>	one of our large older sponsors, TMG/Hyves
May 18 15:23:38 <robbat2>	is closing up shop
May 18 15:23:53 <robbat2>	we have a hard deadline of the end of August to move services away
May 18 15:24:25 <quantumsummers>	is that doable?
May 18 15:24:36 <robbat2>	they presently host 6 physical servers, that host Bugzilla & Wiki, as well as the databases for those (all fully redundant)
May 18 15:25:05 <quantumsummers>	ouch, that is a lot to loose
May 18 15:25:33 <robbat2>	i think after OSL, they are the 2nd or 3rd largest sponsor we have
May 18 15:25:59 <robbat2>	i do want to put out a thank you announcement about them
May 18 15:26:17 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: PR should have some involvement, no?
May 18 15:26:19 <robbat2>	and therein, start a campaign to find more sponsors in the EU
May 18 15:26:26 <quantumsummers>	sounds good
May 18 15:26:28 <quantumsummers>	time line?
May 18 15:26:34 <SwifT>	i'm fully in favor of that
May 18 15:26:45 <robbat2>	i want sponsors twofold:
May 18 15:27:33 <robbat2>	1. something like OSL, but in the EU; full service colo. we own the hardware, they provide bw/power/rack/hands
May 18 15:27:52 <robbat2>	2. either one new large sponsor, or 3+ smaller sponsors
May 18 15:28:38 <robbat2>	the reason behind #1 is more complex than just bugs/wiki
May 18 15:28:46 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: does #1 exist?
May 18 15:28:52 <robbat2>	one of our oldest boxes presently is dev.g.o
May 18 15:28:57 <robbat2>	which is pretty critical to all devs
May 18 15:29:13 <robbat2>	for a long time, EU devs have also complained that it's high latency for them to reach it
May 18 15:29:45 <robbat2>	so I want to split out email from dev.g.o, and have dev-us.g.o and dev-eu.g.o as smaller systems for devs in each region
May 18 15:29:54 <quantumsummers>	sounds just fine
May 18 15:30:06 <robbat2>	i don't know if #1 exists yet
May 18 15:30:22 <quantumsummers>	I assume they would be more or less mirrors of eachother, i.e. same stuff on each in case one fails or someone is travelling
May 18 15:30:24 <robbat2>	nothing in a quick look, but maybe the PR boost will help find it
May 18 15:30:36 <Betelgeuse>	robbat2: With one operator my ipv6 traffice used to bounce over the atlantic form Finland to France
May 18 15:30:37 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: ok sounds good
May 18 15:30:48 <robbat2>	devs will have accounts on both, and we can offer unison maybe, but normally not mirrored
May 18 15:30:56 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: ok
May 18 15:31:33 <quantumsummers>	I guess the trick will be with distfiles, etc hosted in devspaces
May 18 15:31:46 <robbat2>	therein I want to get projects hosting off the ground
May 18 15:32:11 <robbat2>	but we'll deal with that when we come to it
May 18 15:32:17 <quantumsummers>	ok
May 18 15:32:26 <robbat2>	so timelines, then budget
May 18 15:32:57 <robbat2>	i want to get the announcement before the end of this week
May 18 15:33:10 *	antarus has a draft for that floating around
May 18 15:33:24 <robbat2>	with hope of having at least one new sponsor by end of may, and another by late june
May 18 15:33:40 <dabbott>	I will put it on this months GMN
May 18 15:33:51 <antarus>	dabbott: when is the GMN publish deadline?
May 18 15:34:04 <dabbott>	25th about
May 18 15:34:12 <antarus>	ok
May 18 15:34:17 <robbat2>	and migrating bugs+wiki by end of july, to leave august for slack room
May 18 15:34:21 <dabbott>	before the first for sure
May 18 15:34:47 <robbat2>	budget:
May 18 15:35:53 <robbat2>	if we get an EU OSL, i think that I can get a good server (or maybe two), plus PDU, switches, cabling, shipping, for $10k USD
May 18 15:36:38 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: ok, I can get behind that
May 18 15:36:49 <antarus>	we could also conceivably...pay for hosting?
May 18 15:37:28 <quantumsummers>	antarus: for a colo? I currently pay ~$800 a month for a half rack in a colo and the space isn't the big part of that, it's power and be
May 18 15:37:29 <robbat2>	we'd be looking for probably a quarter rack (or an 1/8th to start, and space to grow), with 5A+ of power; bandwidth: 5-10mbit commit, burstable to 25-50mbit
May 18 15:37:31 <quantumsummers>	bw
May 18 15:38:11 <Betelgeuse>	doesn't hetzner already sponsor something?
May 18 15:38:16 <antarus>	quantumsummers: we don't need a half rack though
May 18 15:38:19 <Betelgeuse>	We could at least ask for discounted rates
May 18 15:38:30 <antarus>	Betelgeuse: leaseweb is also an existing sponsor
May 18 15:38:39 <antarus>	and their stuff is seemingly affordable
May 18 15:38:45 <robbat2>	the remote hands are actually a larger concern than the physical space/power/bw
May 18 15:38:51 <robbat2>	OSL's admins do a lot for us
May 18 15:38:51 <antarus>	depending on how much gear we have to stuff in it
May 18 15:38:51 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: do you have a hard deadline to identify a facility?
May 18 15:39:16 <antarus>	yeah, none of us can drive to amsterdam, heh.
May 18 15:39:18 <Betelgeuse>	antarus: I have no idea of price level but here's for hetzner http://www.hetzner.de/en/hosting/produktmatrix/racks
May 18 15:39:53 <dabbott>	we may have to pay on of our devs to visit the servers @ times
May 18 15:40:02 <Betelgeuse>	Too bad asking around in Finland is somewhat useless
May 18 15:40:23 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: are you targetting any specific country?
May 18 15:40:28 <Betelgeuse>	unless we want it out of the way routing wise
May 18 15:40:31 <robbat2>	hetzner's racks are in Nuremberg or Falkenstein
May 18 15:40:47 <robbat2>	not amsterdam
May 18 15:40:53 <robbat2>	leaseweb is Amsterdam
May 18 15:41:00 <quantumsummers>	GB, FRA?
May 18 15:41:18 <robbat2>	mainland europe preferred, near at least two devs
May 18 15:41:24 <robbat2>	that we can invoke for help if needed
May 18 15:41:35 <dabbott>	yep
May 18 15:41:48 <quantumsummers>	so Germany would be the best, with the highest concentration of devs
May 18 15:42:28 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: well according to the map many Germans are on the western border
May 18 15:42:41 <robbat2>	Dusseldorf or Zurich have the best concentrations
May 18 15:42:59 <quantumsummers>	Zurich has high quality data lines apparently
May 18 15:43:10 <robbat2>	prague is also promising
May 18 15:43:11 *	antarus blinks
May 18 15:43:20 <antarus>	28.56 a kw/h
May 18 15:43:22 <antarus>	damn germans
May 18 15:43:27 <robbat2>	but it will really depend wherever we're offered
May 18 15:43:29 <quantumsummers>	yeah, noticed that too
May 18 15:44:09 <Betelgeuse>	antarus: so expensive or cheap in your opinion? Can't say because it's expensive in comparison to Finland.
May 18 15:45:53 <quantumsummers>	I pay $ 0.15 / kWh
May 18 15:46:02 <quantumsummers>	which is fairly cheap
May 18 15:46:11 <quantumsummers>	with 100% ToS
May 18 15:46:58 <robbat2>	assuming 600W, the heztner rate is EUR125/mo
May 18 15:47:10 <robbat2>	on top of the base rack cost
May 18 15:48:22 <quantumsummers>	we should be able to afford that, and perhaps Hetzner would offer some additional support
May 18 15:48:39 <robbat2>	after the dust on this is settled; later this year we should replace dev.g.o, and possibly the old atoms
May 18 15:48:50 <robbat2>	so this will be a big capex year in infra
May 18 15:48:56 <robbat2>	that's all for me
May 18 15:48:59 <robbat2>	baby is squirming again
May 18 15:49:00 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: thanks!
May 18 15:49:05 <Betelgeuse>	thanks
May 18 15:49:14 <quantumsummers>	ok, so that is a good bit to think about.
May 18 15:49:22 <robbat2>	antarus, can you shoot that draft to infra@ and i'll pass on to trustees@+pr@
May 18 15:49:34 <antarus>	yeah I need to finish it first ;p
May 18 15:49:41 <antarus>	will get that done by CoB today
May 18 15:49:43 <quantumsummers>	antarus: stop slacking :P
May 18 15:49:47 <antarus>	I need to consume the vapors
May 18 15:49:50 <quantumsummers>	ok, that is just great
May 18 15:49:57 <robbat2>	CoB on a non-business day ;-)
May 18 15:50:07 <antarus>	robbat2: intentionally left vague
May 18 15:50:09 <antarus>	;p
May 18 15:50:14 <quantumsummers>	Once we see the proposal and evaluate it, we shall hold a vote via email
May 18 15:50:28 <quantumsummers>	let's try to turn this around quickly
May 18 15:50:30 <dabbott>	sounds good
May 18 15:50:39 <quantumsummers>	ok, anyone else for Open Floor?
May 18 15:50:49 <quantumsummers>	going once
May 18 15:51:01 <quantumsummers>	going twice
May 18 15:51:16 <quantumsummers>	three times a lady
May 18 15:51:30 <quantumsummers>	ok. The floor is closed.
May 18 15:51:42 <quantumsummers>	Thanks everyone for attending this month's meeting of the board
May 18 15:51:54 *	quantumsummers closes the meeting with the gavel bang
May 18 15:51:58 <quantumsummers>	**bang**
