Sep 21 15:13:25 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum,  so lets start
Sep 21 15:14:08 <NeddySeagoon>	Who is logging the meeting - dabbot, I guess this falls to you
Sep 21 15:14:24 <dabbott>	got it :)
Sep 21 15:15:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Sorry I missed the AGM.  Domestic cirumstances changed since we set the calendar
Sep 21 15:15:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Nothing in the Activity Tracker
Sep 21 15:16:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Credit card for AWS usage - It seems we have an Amex.  
Sep 21 15:17:11 <NeddySeagoon>	Details need to be made available to infra - thats an action on quantumsummers
Sep 21 15:17:36 <Betelgeuse>	If not, I think it should be reasonably easy to get a prepaid virtual one
Sep 21 15:17:46 <NeddySeagoon>	We need to skip quantumsummers stuff as hes not here
Sep 21 15:17:48 <Betelgeuse>	I know there are Finnish providers so there must be US ones
Sep 21 15:18:21 <NeddySeagoon>	"robbat2 he's got an amex for our needs, he's just travelling and doesn't have it on hand to give me the details yet"
Sep 21 15:18:35 <NeddySeagoon>	looks like its well in hand
Sep 21 15:19:19 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT,   Gentoo Trademark License Agreement  - update please
Sep 21 15:19:43 <SwifT>	the latest "version"of the updated agreement has been sent off to gentoo-nfp for final discussion
Sep 21 15:19:49 <SwifT>	no feedback ont he mailinglist from it though
Sep 21 15:20:13 <SwifT>	it focuses on the gentoo foundation alone, as gentoo e.v. didn't really act upon the question for potential "merger" of their license usage and ours
Sep 21 15:20:26 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, is it wort a post on gentoo-annouce ?
Sep 21 15:20:43 <NeddySeagoon>	worth*
Sep 21 15:20:48 <SwifT>	NeddySeagoon: still in the "feedback wanted" state, or afterwards when it's published?
Sep 21 15:21:22 <SwifT>	for the feedback, I might better ask gentoo-project as well ( not many are on the -nfp one)
Sep 21 15:21:26 <NeddySeagoon>	In feedback wanted.  Ance its published, we don,t really want to change it
Sep 21 15:22:06 <SwifT>	I'm not sure it's worth an -announce mail, but I'm not opposed to it either
Sep 21 15:22:46 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, just to say its on -nfp if you want to review and comment
Sep 21 15:23:04 <SwifT>	ok, will do
Sep 21 15:24:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Bugs  I don't see any to review today
Sep 21 15:24:22 <SwifT>	other than that nothing major to say onit
Sep 21 15:25:13 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business.  Gentoo Developers applying for membership
Sep 21 15:25:40 <NeddySeagoon>	Xavier Miller and Kristian Fiskerstrand 
Sep 21 15:25:54 <NeddySeagoon>	All those in favour say aye
Sep 21 15:26:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Aye
Sep 21 15:26:05 <SwifT>	aye
Sep 21 15:26:19 *	NeddySeagoon looks at Betelgeuse 
Sep 21 15:26:33 <dabbott>	heh
Sep 21 15:26:50 <Betelgeuse>	aye
Sep 21 15:27:10 <NeddySeagoon>	Thank you.  Mootion carried.
Sep 21 15:27:34 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, please write the emails.
Sep 21 15:27:43 <dabbott>	will do
Sep 21 15:27:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business
Sep 21 15:28:00 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, ?
Sep 21 15:28:05 <SwifT>	nope,not from me
Sep 21 15:28:09 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ?
Sep 21 15:28:23 <dabbott>	Copyright assignment status 
Sep 21 15:28:46 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, you have the floor
Sep 21 15:28:54 <dabbott>	Betelgeuse: added to agenda :)
Sep 21 15:28:58 <Betelgeuse>	Do we have existing docs to assign copyright to the Foundation?
Sep 21 15:29:32 <dabbott>	https://www.gentoo.org/main/en/name-logo.xml
Sep 21 15:29:57 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: does not seem related?
Sep 21 15:30:05 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, rich0 did something with this - I would need to read logs to see where it got to
Sep 21 15:31:00 <NeddySeagoon>	From memory it got to our legal team for review
Sep 21 15:31:16 <dabbott>	http://dev.gentoo.org/~rich0/copyrightpolicy.xml
Sep 21 15:31:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, That well be a no, then
Sep 21 15:32:43 <Betelgeuse>	Ok.  I will take that as a needs work item then.
Sep 21 15:33:10 <NeddySeagoon>	yep.  Are you volunteering to take it on ?
Sep 21 15:33:14 <SwifT>	http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/legal/copyrightpolicy.xml is the last I find of it
Sep 21 15:33:34 <SwifT>	and it's indeed still draft
Sep 21 15:33:38 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: No promises to finish but you can attribute it to me.
Sep 21 15:33:46 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: I am working to clear a couple estates atm
Sep 21 15:33:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, understood and thank you.
Sep 21 15:34:40 <NeddySeagoon>	I have one item.  Exchanging contact details.  I'll email the alias
Sep 21 15:35:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Responsibilities
Sep 21 15:35:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Its looks like they are all yours dabbott 
Sep 21 15:35:39 <dabbott>	yep I got it :)
Sep 21 15:35:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor
Sep 21 15:36:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Is antarus on the alias ?
Sep 21 15:38:01 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
