**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Mon 2009

*Now talking on ##gentoo-meetings
*wolfe.freenode.net sets mode: +ns
*You've invited EvaSDK to ##gentoo-meetings (wolfe.freenode.net)
*You've invited remi` to ##gentoo-meetings (wolfe.freenode.net)
*You've invited mraudsepp to ##gentoo-meetings (wolfe.freenode.net)
*mraudsepp (n=leio@gentoo/developer/leio) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<nirbheek>	wheee
*EvaSDK (n=eva@gentoo/developer/evasdk) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
*gionnico (n=gionnico@host110-127-dynamic.46-79-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
*gionnico (n=gionnico@host110-127-dynamic.46-79-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has left ##gentoo-meetings: "Sto andando via"
<nirbheek>	Where's remi`
*leio (n=leio@gentoo/developer/leio) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<nirbheek>	He'll miss the discussion
<nirbheek>	logs
*gionnico (n=gionnico@host110-127-dynamic.46-79-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
*DrEeevil (i=dreeevil@gentoo/developer/bonsaikitten) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<nirbheek>	http://is.gd/12uS5
<nirbheek>	^ GNOME bugs
*tanderson (n=gentoofa@gentoo/developer/gentoofan23) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<nirbheek>	tanderson, somewhat related: can we get #gentoo-meetings reinstated?
<nirbheek>	It's unusable
<mraudsepp>	weren't we at 250 bugs? This filters keywording?
<tanderson>	What do you mean reinstated?
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: what's that query ?
<EvaSDK>	I have 249 in my book
<EvaSDK>	:)
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, oh :p
<mraudsepp>	#gentoo-meetings has a keyword
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, it doesn't include gnome-office and gnome-mm
<EvaSDK>	http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=nowords&keywords=REQUEST%2C+STABLEREQ%2C+KEYWORDREQ&bug_status=UNCONFIRMED&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&bug_severity=blocker&bug_severity=critical&bug_severity=majo
<mraudsepp>	channel password basically
<EvaSDK>	and that's just for "important" stuff
<mraudsepp>	my search doesn't include it either
<tanderson>	mraudsepp: it does? I joined it no problem
<mraudsepp>	I get 268 bugs
<mraudsepp>	and that's _without_ CC=gnome that you have
<nirbheek>	I used gnome@gentoo.org
<EvaSDK>	paste
<mraudsepp>	paste what? ;d
<mraudsepp>	http://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?cmdtype=runnamed&namedcmd=gnome
<EvaSDK>	I exclude P4, ebuild request, QA and some low prio stuff like that, it's in another request
<EvaSDK>	mraudsepp: fail :D
*Ford_Prefect (n=ford_pre@gentoo/developer/ford-prefect) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<Ford_Prefect>	n819 ftw!
<Ford_Prefect>	810 even
<mraudsepp>	EvaSDK: call remi ;d
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, yeah, even arun is here now :p
<nirbheek>	So, what's the definitive bugzie search for gnome bugs?
<mraudsepp>	I don't understand what your search is.
<mraudsepp>	I have 268 assignee=gnome and 102 CC=gnome bugs
<Ford_Prefect>	assigned to gnome@ and fdo@ ?
<Ford_Prefect>	makes sense
<mraudsepp>	for those I have separate searches, but that makes even more
<mraudsepp>	<nirbheek> http://is.gd/12uS5
<mraudsepp>	^^ has like 150ish results only
<nirbheek>	I did : assigned to, cced, reporter: gnome@gentoo.org
<nirbheek>	Then
<nirbheek>	I did : assigned to, cced, reporter: gnome.*@gentoo.org (regexp)
<nirbheek>	That gave me 456
<nirbheek>	421, sorry
<mraudsepp>	yeah, sure, but what's that tinyurl about
<nirbheek>	http://is.gd/12veZ
<mraudsepp>	the one you gave before...
<nirbheek>	That one has reporter, assignee, cc: gnome@gentoo.org
<mraudsepp>	well, something is wrong
<nirbheek>	Can we have all this in a single page?
<mraudsepp>	assignee: gnome@gentoo.org is already 268
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, you're our top bug wrangler, how do you manage this stuff?
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: time
<mraudsepp>	just pick a bug and solve it ;d
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, I meant, which bookmarks/saved searches :p
<EvaSDK>	oh yeah, I have a few saved searches
<EvaSDK>	generally gnome assigned + gnome CCed
*remi` (n=remi@gentoo/developer/remi) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<EvaSDK>	then by level of interest, normal prio, inclusion, P4 ebuild request, QA, P5 low prio/long term stuff
<EvaSDK>	mostly
<Ford_Prefect>	does it make sense for us to use the priorities to well, prioritise?
<EvaSDK>	yes it does
<EvaSDK>	and using keywords as well
<nirbheek>	Totally, let's decide that, and I'll compile it into a webpage
<EvaSDK>	I feel inclusion keyword is really important for team work
<nirbheek>	Yes, I agree
<EvaSDK>	but not to be used lightly
<nirbheek>	And doesn't mean "CommitBlindly"
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/desktop/gnome/gnome-policy.xml
<remi`>	how about using those priorities ? => http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/desktop/x/x11/maintaining.xml#doc_chap3
<EvaSDK>	it should be ok to commit something that is marked for inclusion but it doesn't exclude testing
<mraudsepp>	seems like a good starting point, like patching that maybe or maybe renaming.
<mraudsepp>	gnome-policy.xml has our historical priorities meaning documentation
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, actually, we can link that webpage to the appriopriate pages
<nirbheek>	*searches
<nirbheek>	remi`, we should probably merge the x11 and gnome ones
<Ford_Prefect>	I guess all that still makes perfect sense for us now too
<EvaSDK>	remi`: nice stuff
<remi`>	I'm pretty sure Donnie wrote that :)
<mraudsepp>	our priorities explanation seems better
<mraudsepp>	in gnome-policy
<EvaSDK>	more developed at least
<remi`>	the "queries" part is nice, we should copy it and make real links out of it
<nirbheek>	remi`++
<remi`>	that would help us and others out
<nirbheek>	So we all agree both pages are awesome, and need love
<remi`>	because right now, it's really hard to dive in
<remi`>	nirbheek: you'll do the minutes?
<nirbheek>	remi`, yes
<mraudsepp>	I believe we just need a concentrated bug triaging and fixing when we aren't dealing with getting the newest GNOME in
<mraudsepp>	reduce the count, keep it down, no overview loss happening with 50 open bugs
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, let's finish talking about how to organise our bugs first
<remi`>	mraudsepp: sure but we're not there yet
<nirbheek>	Then we can talk about how to handle the bugs themselves
<nirbheek>	Right, "levels" of bugs
<mraudsepp>	there would be nothing to organize when time is spent on fixing bugs instead of organizing them, imho
<EvaSDK>	we should probably write something about closing bugs with TEST-REQUEST or NEEDINFO status more often
<EvaSDK>	to encourage people providing feedback
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, sure, we'll do that too, but now we need to cut the bug list down, so we need to organise them, so let's do that ;p
<EvaSDK>	that implies that when enough information is provided we can come up with either a solution on our side or pushing this stuff upstream
<mraudsepp>	organizing them doesn't cut the bug list down
<EvaSDK>	preferrably the user would do it at this point and we CC there
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, we'll need something similar to how gnome bugzie does for that to be usable
<mraudsepp>	it merely hides bugs from view, the bugs still exist :(
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: that is ?
<EvaSDK>	mraudsepp: it might exist
<remi`>	mraudsepp: there's no hiding, it's just organizing
<Ford_Prefect>	If we can find a lightweight organisation system, might be worth it
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, when the reporter comments on a NEEDINFO bug, the bug asks if the comment gives the information asked, and then reopens it automatically
<EvaSDK>	if we can't reproduce it, what point is there is keeping it nagging at you ?
<EvaSDK>	when you are looking at stuff you can fix I mean
<mraudsepp>	ok, go on. I'm just continuing to always look at the full list and sort it by the column I find appropriate at the time.
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: we do have that or I dreamed it ?
<remi`>	EvaSDK: you dreamt
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, gentoo doesn't, gnome bugzie has it (they have a lot of mods)
<nirbheek>	Anyway, getting back to the original convo
<nirbheek>	All those "levels" of bugs
<remi`>	may I digress for just a moments :
<nirbheek>	Okay, go on
<remi`>	about the GNOME bugzie component, do we all agree to get rid of it?
*EvaSDK has changed the topic to: gnome meeting-ish
<EvaSDK>	yes
<remi`>	or ask infra to make "ebuilds" or "apps" the default?
<EvaSDK>	or at least change it's default assignee
<remi`>	yes, that too
<mraudsepp>	I like GNOME component because it saves me from typing gnome into the assignee box :)
<nirbheek>	GNOME component helps power users who don't have bugzie powah, but wastes our time
<remi`>	right, that's about the only advantage of it ;)
<mraudsepp>	well, we merely component our little share to bug wrangling
<mraudsepp>	err
<mraudsepp>	well, we merely contribute our little share to bug wrangling
*remi` does random bugwrangling from time to time
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, except the set of "we" is EvaSDK :p
<remi`>	EvaSDK does a whole lot
<Ford_Prefect>	Anyone remember what happened to the autoassign idea?
<mraudsepp>	supposedly not once there's that organization. Basic organization means easy finding what hasn't been organized yet
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, lack of manpowah -- you're an infra dude, get to it!
<mraudsepp>	and that little list is easy to reassign
<nirbheek>	_actually_ this is a question we should as our power users
<nirbheek>	*ask
<nirbheek>	mrpouet, plaes, etc
<Ford_Prefect>	can they cc usÅ
<Ford_Prefect>	s/Å/?
<nirbheek>	Yeah, they can
<nirbheek>	So I suppose that solves the problem of getting that to our attention
<nirbheek>	So, general consensus: Remove GNOME component, and power users etc can CC us
<nirbheek>	Aye?
<EvaSDK>	power users can directly assign
<EvaSDK>	at least that's how I remember it
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, I didn't have powah when I was a power user :)
<mraudsepp>	I find infra making it more clear to users that they shouldn't assign a component if they aren't sure more clear
<mraudsepp>	there's no point in components at all otherwise
<EvaSDK>	it's written in clear red text
<EvaSDK>	right ?
*Ford_Prefect wonders how many people who are not power users get the component right
<EvaSDK>	how clearer could it be
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, I would say none since most are useless :p
<Ford_Prefect>	We really want to minimise wrangler work, if possible.
<mraudsepp>	maybe it should be "GNOME team maintained", not "GNOME" or something ;d
<Ford_Prefect>	If the number who get it right is small, aye from me
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, too long :p
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, I meant, most components are useless
<nirbheek>	There's too much noise in all that
<EvaSDK>	well the real solution would be to implement auto-assign and get rid of that component stuff altogether
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK++
<nirbheek>	So, Ford_Prefect, do you volunteer to get that done?
<mraudsepp>	I would actually take a different approach
<mraudsepp>	but I don't see that happening from infra anytime soon
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, good, let's stick to the reasonably possible :p
<Ford_Prefect>	I'll talk to Robin about what remains
<nirbheek>	Kewl, so this is done -- after Ford_Prefect talks to Robin, we'll see what to do about the COMPONENT field
<mraudsepp>	which would be to have a separate field for the specific package the bug (of type "ebuild") is about
<mraudsepp>	with some AJAX to get a category/PN pair quickly. Easy to make component and assignment matches from there
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, DREAM ON :p
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, blog about it
<nirbheek>	Next: bugzie template search page for prioritized bugs
<nirbheek>	Keyword bugs, separate
<nirbheek>	Tracker bugs, separate
<nirbheek>	crashers should be Major
<remi`>	nirbheek: ACK, let's create a small "maintenance" page in the gnome doc space
<nirbheek>	remi`, that will take time to do, so for now I'll just make a small html page in my devspace
<mraudsepp>	I can guidexmlify
<nirbheek>	Excellent, so let's get the bugzie search links out now
<remi`>	https://bugs.gentoo.org/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=allwordssubstr&short_desc=&long_desc_type=substring&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&emailassigned_to1=1&emailtype1=exact&email1=gnome%40gentoo.org&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id
<remi`>	=&votes=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Bug+Number&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=
<remi`>	that's my base URL
<nirbheek>	remi`, dude, that's long
<EvaSDK>	fail
<remi`>	can we shorten it?
<mraudsepp>	as for saved searches, maybe a greasemonkey script with the saved searches is better
<nirbheek>	remi`, is.gd
<remi`>	nirbheek: ????
<mraudsepp>	assuming we all use browsers that can have such scripts ;d
<EvaSDK>	epiphany
<nirbheek>	remi`, paste the http://is.gd URL
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, dude, one step at a time :p
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, let's get the URLs first ;p
<EvaSDK>	works the same for basic stuff
<remi`>	nirbheek: I have _no_ idea what you're talking about
<mraudsepp>	I don't care for the urls, they are unreadable. Talk about search criteria
<remi`>	mraudsepp: right, look at the x11 page I posted earlier
<nirbheek>	remi`, you mean shorten the URL by removing redundant entries? I meant use a url shortner like tinyurl :p
<remi`>	nirbheek: !good
<mraudsepp>	and I think it's better to talk about it with a concrete proposal, we all have day-jobs going on too
<nirbheek>	remi`, just for communicating with us, so we can click on them
<mraudsepp>	except for nirbheek  ;d
<nirbheek>	*stab*
*Ford_Prefect (n=ford_pre@gentoo/developer/ford-prefect) has quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)
<remi`>	mraudsepp: agreed
<remi`>	nirbheek: you do it?
<nirbheek>	remi`, I'll compile the webpages
<remi`>	great
<nirbheek>	Just give me some criteria for searches
<nirbheek>	Fine, I'll get a proposed criteria for the next meeting with a sample set of links
<nirbheek>	Next up:
<nirbheek>	How Much Does YOUR eclass sucks?
<nirbheek>	-s
<EvaSDK>	too much ?
<nirbheek>	http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=262491
<EvaSDK>	I have no idea where we should stand on bug #256379
<nirbheek>	http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=262490
<mraudsepp>	I think you need to start with writing down the relevant properties first (P1 means that, P2 means that, what relevant keywords are there, if and what severity choices mean, etc) and then think about search criteria amongst those
<nirbheek>	Are the eclass fixes high-priority?
<mraudsepp>	I don't think so.
<nirbheek>	What about our inconsistent USE=doc meaning?
<nirbheek>	gtk-doc results in rebuilding of docs
<EvaSDK>	I think some of this stuff should really be done in a not too distant feature, it's just annoying to get open bugs for doc stuff for example
<nirbheek>	And we unconditionally install api docs anyway
<mraudsepp>	what open bugs?
<mraudsepp>	yes, we should do that always.
<remi`>	about USE=doc, dang had started doing some stuff on it
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, see those blocking the tracker bug "stupid USE=doc management in gnome2.eclass"
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, you want it, I don't
<nirbheek>	Most don't
<remi`>	he'd compared to identical chroots, one with USE=doc, the other with USE=-doc
<remi`>	and I don't think he saw any differences between the two
*Ford_Prefect (n=ford_pre@gentoo/developer/ford-prefect) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<nirbheek>	remi`, exactly, our USE=doc just rebuilds the documentation!
<Ford_Prefect>	Yay, real keyboard.
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, congrats
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: All those depend bugs are INVALID as far as I'm concerned
<EvaSDK>	for USE="gtk-doc" or doc, whatever, we should probably do "introspection" of the package if possible
<remi`>	(shame he's not around to tell us what he found)
<EvaSDK>	like eautomake does to some extent
<mraudsepp>	I think the real solution is to find out the deal with cross-linking
<EvaSDK>	remi`: that's probably due to enhancements done since 1.10
<mraudsepp>	get gtkdoc-rebase installed always, I think it should be light and not depend on all that stylesheets stuff
<mraudsepp>	and just don't need any USE=doc at all, as rebuilding is not necessary at all then, due to no benefits
<EvaSDK>	is there a need for API docs if you're not a dev anyway ?
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, Yes. Which is why KDE folks got a new USE-flag called api-docs
<EvaSDK>	I mean it's nothing like man pages that tell you how a command works
<nirbheek>	DrEeevil, right?
<EvaSDK>	api-docs sounds fine
<mraudsepp>	well, something global for api specific stuff might work.
<mraudsepp>	need to investigate that, should be a global thing then
<DrEeevil>	nirbheek: no idea
<EvaSDK>	we should decide on wether building gtk-doc or not is relevant at all these days
<mraudsepp>	My standing understanding of USE=doc convention is
<EvaSDK>	since gtkdoc-rebase is executed always if installed
<remi`>	 +1 on USE=api-docs
<mraudsepp>	a) If documentation means no extra big downloads or build times, unconditionally always install it without USE flag
<mraudsepp>	b) If it means extra build time or non-trivial downloads, USE=doc
<EvaSDK>	currently it means extra installed weight
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, it's purely about it being useless to 90% of the users
<EvaSDK>	that might be complete shit for some users
<remi`>	or we should actually support what USE=doc originally stands for :
<remi`>	doc - Adds extra documentation (API, Javadoc, etc)
<remi`>	meaning that USE=-doc does _not_ install API doc
<Ford_Prefect>	Which is the same as "api-docs"
<EvaSDK>	that would mean getting rid of it in most cases
<nirbheek>	remi`, the 'etc' is very very vague :/
<mraudsepp>	except that global description has been out of reality for years ;d
<Ford_Prefect>	nirbheek, I don't think it's that vague
<remi`>	mraudsepp: the local descriptions pretty much say the same thing
<Ford_Prefect>	But I agree with remi` here
<mraudsepp>	for me USE=doc is more like "download an extra HTML documentation pack and install it"
<EvaSDK>	$ du -sh /usr/share/gtk-doc/
<EvaSDK>	125M    /usr/share/gtk-doc/
<remi`>	IMHO, USE=-doc should _not_ install documentation other than README and/or man pages
<EvaSDK>	on my home system
<EvaSDK>	it's not that big, but not that small as well
<EvaSDK>	could help with livecd stuff
<nirbheek>	remi`++
<EvaSDK>	it not already excluded
<mraudsepp>	so, find out what the deal is with crosslinking these days and we go from there
<remi`>	EvaSDK: that could very well make gnome fit on the gentoo livecd if ever comes back to life
<nirbheek>	So, we have three types of docs:
<EvaSDK>	remi`: note that we should be able to just generate it by ourselves
<nirbheek>	1) Yelp user-documentation, manpages, etc
<nirbheek>	2) API documentation (pre-built, just install)
<nirbheek>	2) API documentation (rebuild, uses gtk-doc)
<remi`>	mraudsepp: that's what I told dang the other day, and apparently he didn't notice cross-linking to better any better or worse with USE=doc
<mraudsepp>	last time I heard he hadn't looked at the right thing yet
<remi`>	probably :)
<nirbheek>	Okay, since we don't know the diff b/w rebuilding and pre-built yet, let's atleast split out into user and API docs
<remi`>	but his method was right though
<remi`>	identical chroots, turn on USE=doc, diff
<nirbheek>	My goodness ;p
<nirbheek>	Talk about brute force :D
<nirbheek>	So, we all agree we need to rename to three types of docs?
<nirbheek>	doc, api-doc, rebuild-api-doc ?
<nirbheek>	(maybe not the third one :p)
<nirbheek>	And maybe rebuild-doc too
<mraudsepp>	no
<nirbheek>	So, atleast doc and api-doc?
<mraudsepp>	There's no use for doc then
<nirbheek>	Yelp user documentation?
<EvaSDK>	remi`: that's the wrong thing to do though
*Ford_Prefect (n=ford_pre@gentoo/developer/ford-prefect) has quit: Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer)
*remi` thinks USE=doc should control user docs too
<mraudsepp>	yelp user docs get always installed
<mraudsepp>	we aren't making that optional
<EvaSDK>	since the real check would be to make sure gtk-doc was never installed in the USE="-doc" chroot
<EvaSDK>	yeah, mraudsepp++ on this one
<mraudsepp>	for the record, /usr/share/gtk-doc contributes 16MB to livecd
<mraudsepp>	likely a bit less
<nirbheek>	That's huge for the live cd
<nirbheek>	Not for the live dvd, but huge for live cd
<mraudsepp>	test case: mksquashfs /usr/share/gtk-doc gtk-doc.squashfs
*Ford_Prefect (n=ford_pre@gentoo/developer/ford-prefect) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<Ford_Prefect>	nirbheek, why would we not install user documentation?
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, maybe the user doesn't want it around
<remi`>	here's a corollary question : do _our_ users read yelp docs?
<EvaSDK>	remi`: that's not the point
<nirbheek>	I personally _have_ to read klondike yelp docs for 99% of the extra games
<remi`>	we're not ubuntu or fedora, do our users _need_ that doc? (it's a real question)
<EvaSDK>	user documentation available through yelp is as important as man pages
<nirbheek>	But for the rest, I don't even know if they exist
<remi`>	EvaSDK: I think it's important, we're talking about user features here
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, yes, and man pages are often optional
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: not in gentoo
<EvaSDK>	at least not when they do not require huge amount of deps
<mraudsepp>	FEATURES=noman is there
<EvaSDK>	right
<EvaSDK>	but if we were to strip user docs, for that to be meaningful, we'd have to strip it from package compilation as well
<EvaSDK>	since it takes a bloody amount of time as well
<nirbheek>	That should be a simple sed of the Makefile to remove the subdir
<EvaSDK>	well depends on the package
<EvaSDK>	but really I'm not thrilled by removing that
<Ford_Prefect>	I really wonder if it's worth the effort
<EvaSDK>	whereas gtk-doc is a pain
*Ford_Prefect needs to grab dinner before he passes out. Bbiab, will reply off-list if meeting ends by then.
<nirbheek>	So what we all agree upon is this: gtk-doc is a pain, and USE=doc does not mean api-docs for most people
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, aight, I'll be posting minutes
<Ford_Prefect>	Last comment - I'm in favour of renaming doc to api-doc to make the meaning very clear
<nirbheek>	So step 1) USE=doc where it installs api docs should be renamed to api-docs
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: hum I'd rather put it this way, rebuilding gtk-doc looks useless nowadays, it's api-docs but people don't necesseraly realize this
<Ford_Prefect>	Or dev-docs or something like that, so it's not library specific
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, yeah
<nirbheek>	So fix to not rebuild, rather to control installation
<nirbheek>	Then, rename to api-doc
<remi`>	well, if we want to keep user docs, we might as well keep USE=doc for gtk-doc installation
<EvaSDK>	yeah
<remi`>	or we have a consensus on USE=api-doc ?
<nirbheek>	That's what KDE is using iirc
<remi`>	can't find it
<EvaSDK>	I would argue that such use flag would probably be best discussed on -dev
<nirbheek>	remi`, it was in their last meeting minutes
<EvaSDK>	but not sure this would end well
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, Yes.
<nirbheek>	I say KDE herd wants it done, if we do it too, then the discussion on -dev will be shorter
<EvaSDK>	If we get kde/gnome/x11 on the same boat anyway...
<nirbheek>	Exactly
<remi`>	x11 installs no doc anyway ;) only man pages
<nirbheek>	Then it should :p
<remi`>	nirbheek: there are _no_ x docs, that's the beauty of x
<remi`>	</digression>
<EvaSDK>	or its uglyness
<EvaSDK>	depends on how you see things
<remi`>	EvaSDK: in X, beauty and ugliness are identical
<EvaSDK>	1:1 relation ?
<nirbheek>	They just redefined ugliness as beauty
<remi`>	moving on, guys :)
<EvaSDK>	next point ?
<nirbheek>	Static Libraries
<nirbheek>	What's our position on --disable-static ?
<EvaSDK>	disable
<EvaSDK>	and provide a use-flag if necessary
<nirbheek>	Do we want USE=static-libs ?
<mraudsepp>	only when appropriate
<mraudsepp>	glib, C++ bindings
<EvaSDK>	but in most case there is no need nor it is even tested
<nirbheek>	Low-level, like libsoup?
<remi`>	ACK on mraudsepp's list
<mraudsepp>	no
<remi`>	NAK for libsoup
<mraudsepp>	C++ and stuff that wants to use the library but lives in / (as opposed to /usr)
<remi`>	it's not critical
<nirbheek>	So, things lower than libsoup, libgweather? :p
<mraudsepp>	glib ships it unconditionally though, and that's fine.
<nirbheek>	I mean, it's not difficult to put static-libs in the eclass...
<remi`>	nirbheek: USE flag pollution
<mraudsepp>	we don't need the static libs ever
<EvaSDK>	yeah like remi said
<mraudsepp>	they don't work
<nirbheek>	Aight
<nirbheek>	.la files?
<EvaSDK>	they're not tested would be more correct
<mraudsepp>	they are a source of undetected security vulnerabilities on users systems
<remi`>	nirbheek: FTR, _anything_ above gtk will _fail_ with static linking
<EvaSDK>	ho ?
<nirbheek>	remi`, oh, hum so let's disable
<remi`>	since gtk uses dynamic loading => fail
<mraudsepp>	just disable until reasonable wanted otherwise, at which point we discuss
<mraudsepp>	council is fine with that ;d
<nirbheek>	hehehe
<nirbheek>	Good, so if someone asks, then we see
<nirbheek>	Else, disable with glee
<mraudsepp>	yes, except glib.
<nirbheek>	Yeah, as remi` said, anything above gtk+
<nirbheek>	Now, .la files -- lafilefixer works wonderfully
<mraudsepp>	unconditionally installed static lib there. If we want to put it behind static-libs there, we need to discuss that and talk through with syslog-ng maintainers
<nirbheek>	How about we start dropping .la files?
<mraudsepp>	Definitely no
<nirbheek>	lafilefixer works wonderfully
<EvaSDK>	should we move this to the eclass btw ?
<mraudsepp>	I don't care ;d
<mraudsepp>	it's not a solution.
<EvaSDK>	lafilefixer is a hammer really
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, no distro. I repeat. No distro ships .la files.
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: they do. Check their -dev packages.
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: yes they do
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, those don't count :p
<EvaSDK>	they do count...
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: it does. Our packages includes their -dev
<nirbheek>	They shouldn't be shipped by default
<EvaSDK>	well since our system is from source we can't escape it
<mraudsepp>	implement portage support for package splits and we talk
<nirbheek>	Yes, we can, if we don't need .la files for building
<nirbheek>	Which means, no static building required
<remi`>	with the current state of things, we should keep .la files for now
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: you don't know if some user needs or doesn't need them for building
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: you seriously don't know that, you can't pretend to know
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, what are .la files used for besides static building?
<EvaSDK>	I'd say that if they build obscure stuff, they should fix it to use pkg-config but we are way beyond this point currently
<mraudsepp>	dependency finding
<mraudsepp>	whatever.
<EvaSDK>	module loading
<mraudsepp>	they could list *.la files in their linker line directly if they are stupid
<EvaSDK>	weird arches stuff
<nirbheek>	Gah. So we just postpone this.
<nirbheek>	The reason why I brought this up is because it's related to the next topic
<nirbheek>	Bad link-level deps which have nothing to do with the *DEPEND
<nirbheek>	Partly solved by --as-needed
<nirbheek>	Partly not
<nirbheek>	We need scripts to detect this
<EvaSDK>	that's pkg-config being in a state of a limbo
<nirbheek>	I see. So we should keep an eye on this
<EvaSDK>	some packages assume some behavior of pkgconfig that isn't true on all versions or distros
<EvaSDK>	basically we're screwed from all sides with this
<remi`>	IMHO, we have other issues than this :)
<remi`>	s/other/bigger/
<nirbheek>	The Libs.private stuff right
<mraudsepp>	many GNOME libraries were made to use Requires.private properly
<EvaSDK>	well it's probably a bigger problem than you can imagine, but it hasn't exploded yet so we can go on like this :)
<nirbheek>	remi`, just pointing out that writing scripts for this should not be difficult, and it would be prudent to keep an eye on this stuff (since fixing is not important right now)
<mraudsepp>	I have a plan for --as-needed QA, I need to write it up
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, there's been activity on the as-needed by default bug
<mraudsepp>	I don't mean --as-needed by default
<EvaSDK>	oh btw guys, while you are all around, I'd like you to checkout my git hooks in my devspace, use them, enhance them, ...
<mraudsepp>	patch binutils to issue a warning when --as-needed actually drops a DT_NEEDED entry
<mraudsepp>	catch with portage and issue a QA warning on that
<mraudsepp>	then you can figure out what pkg-config file is stupid
<mraudsepp>	and fix it upstream
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, put them into the git overlay :p
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: that's not really suited imho
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, no, I meant like in scripts/
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, I don't know anything about that, so that'll go into minutes as being owned by you :p
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: yeah I understood that
<remi`>	EvaSDK: overlay git hooks?
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: it's not a GNOME project.
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, but it affects us, it's going into the minutes :p
<nirbheek>	We really want --as-needed since it helps with things like gnome-desktop API going bai bai
<nirbheek>	Why do they have to keep doing .soname bumps <.<
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: we don't need --as-needed if --as-needed doesn't filter out anything (.pc files aren't bad, crappy libtool .la files don't get used)
<remi`>	mraudsepp: even in a perfect pkg-config world, --as-needed is still needed if we have .la files lying around
<mraudsepp>	so --as-needed isn't needed for users if the packages don't get useless DT_NEEDED entries in the first place
<mraudsepp>	not necessarily
<EvaSDK>	remi`: yes
<mraudsepp>	it is bound to gtk+
<mraudsepp>	look at $libdir/libgtk-x11-2.0.la
<mraudsepp>	I don't think GNOME really relies on any libtool stuff
<mraudsepp>	maybe only the things that need X11 stuff, like control-center and libbackground and such stuff
<nirbheek>	And pygtk
<nirbheek>	(stuff that links to python.so)
<remi`>	mraudsepp: that's new, gtk's .la file didn't use to be that way
<remi`>	clearly this file shows that gtk cannot be used for static linking
<nirbheek>	Even I get that :p
<nirbheek>	So, --disable-static has more powah behind it
<nirbheek>	What's next?
<mraudsepp>	remi`: well, you use pkg-config when static linking still
<mraudsepp>	but who's crazy enough to static link all that
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, vmware folks maybe :p
<mraudsepp>	it has any sense only when you are doing an embedded thing with only one GUI application possible to run and exist
<nirbheek>	or chromium people
<Ford_Prefect>	People we don't care about, in other words. :P
<mraudsepp>	vmware folks can't really static link, they would need to do painful insurances of re-linking possibility requirement
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, they've shipped an internal gtk lib for centuries now
<mraudsepp>	shared lib
<mraudsepp>	ELF file
<mraudsepp>	not an ar archive
<nirbheek>	Not the default thing, but something else that's activated via env var
<nirbheek>	Anyway, irrelevant
<mraudsepp>	what was the topic, anyway?
<EvaSDK>	anyway where were we ?
<nirbheek>	link-level deps that are different from *DEPEND
<nirbheek>	Which cause horrid breakages during things like libxcb and gnome-desktop
<nirbheek>	the gnome-desktop stuff is especially bad since gnome-desktop-sharp needs to move with it
*gionnico (n=gionnico@host110-127-dynamic.46-79-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has quit: "Sto andando via"
<Ford_Prefect>	That's because of upstream breaking ABI without soname bumping, right?
<EvaSDK>	well that's bad because we don't really communicate with dotnet
<nirbheek>	libxcb, yes, gnome-desktop, no
<mraudsepp>	upstream bumps soname
<mraudsepp>	libxcb did too, I bet
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, they just removed the .so file
<mraudsepp>	problem there is that a library completely disappeared.
<nirbheek>	But the breakage was the same
<nirbheek>	Unrelated stuff had to be rebuilt
<EvaSDK>	gunman got shooted down ?
<mraudsepp>	not true
<mraudsepp>	gnome-desktop is related stuff
<mraudsepp>	all things using gnome-desktop get rebuild
<mraudsepp>	or in the normal case, upgraded together with gnome-desktop with no extra rebuilds.
<EvaSDK>	anyway, back to our point, --disable-static, discussed
<EvaSDK>	now ?
<remi`>	 --disable-static by default in the eclass, with a way to override it for only a few select packages
<remi`>	agreed?
<nirbheek>	I would say check configure for --disable-static support
<nirbheek>	Then disable it
<remi`>	sure, that's implementation detail
<nirbheek>	Now, link-level deps
<mraudsepp>	I would say we pass it manually.
<nirbheek>	For every package?
<mraudsepp>	no, only those that install static libraries
<mraudsepp>	this is, well, duh, only libraries
<mraudsepp>	not applications, which is two third of stuff
<remi`>	mraudsepp: so yes, default in the eclass is to disable static
<mraudsepp>	we already pass it for half of the libraries or more, add more, once all is done, we can convert all gnome2.eclass using stuff in one go
<nirbheek>	No harm done for those
<mraudsepp>	I really don't like eclass passing configure arguments at all
<remi`>	mraudsepp: what about those that will need --enable-static, how will that work?
<mraudsepp>	I got burnt with wxwindows.eclass when taking over
<mraudsepp>	and all this USE=doc and USE=debug stuff problem is also from the eclass having passed configure arguments
<remi`>	mraudsepp: what's your idea then? I'm missing something
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, the USE=debug stuff was just stupid
<nirbheek>	USE=doc was reasonably, but didn't have a way to override
<nirbheek>	I mean, it should atleast check for GTK_DOC_INIT
<Ford_Prefect>	remi`, mraudsepp says let's add --disable-static to libraries' ebuilds
<mraudsepp>	we already do for many library. We can later easily convert to eclass as appropriate or whatever
<remi`>	mraudsepp: are you seriously proposing that we change every ebuild to add --disable-static ?
<EvaSDK>	Ford_Prefect: we should walk all ebuilds we own because there's probably a good load that is still not specifying it
<mraudsepp>	once we have GIT. Same for USE=debug fixing really
<mraudsepp>	remi`: no?
<remi`>	guys, really, I'm lost
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, USE=debug and doc could use more intelligence
<mraudsepp>	remi`: not ALL ebuilds need --disable-static
<EvaSDK>	I will sound annoying with this but: "are we really going to have to wait for git to do all of our stuff ?"
<remi`>	nirbheek: off topic
<mraudsepp>	remi`: only libraries need that don't have AM_DISABLE_STATIC in configure.ac
<nirbheek>	remi`, no, that's what mraudsepp is saying -- that they have problems
<remi`>	mraudsepp: that's probably a _lot_
<mraudsepp>	remi`: no
<remi`>	I have 882 .a files on my system...
<nirbheek>	Yay, mraudsepp gave us a way to know where to enable --disable-static
<nirbheek>	let's put that into the eclass
<mraudsepp>	$ ls /usr/lib/libgnome*.a
<mraudsepp>	/usr/lib/libgnome-2.a  /usr/lib/libgnomecanvas-2.a  /usr/lib/libgnomecups-1.0.a  /usr/lib/libgnomecupsui-1.0.a  /usr/lib/libgnome-desktop-2.a  /usr/lib/libgnomeui-2.a  /usr/lib/libgnome-window-settings.a
<mraudsepp>	that's it.
<mraudsepp>	that doesn't cover things not libgnome*
<nirbheek>	I can't say because I have --disable-static in EXTRA_ECONF in make.conf
<mraudsepp>	we can easily find the ten packages that need --disable-static
<mraudsepp>	I can do it later, put me up an ACTION point for me on that in meetings.
<nirbheek>	What I _can_ say is that it breaks nothing GNOME-ey
<mraudsepp>	minutes*
<EvaSDK>	speaking of which, x11 do install a lot of .a :)
<Ford_Prefect>	find *lib* gnome-base/*lib* gnome-extra/*lib* -name metadata.xml | xargs grep gnome | wc -l
<Ford_Prefect>	76
<remi`>	gstreamer ships .a files, so does gdk, libglade, gtk-vnc ...
<remi`>	EvaSDK: yeah, x-modular should probably have USE=static-libs
<EvaSDK>	gstreamer is on the list of things to fix, but it has bigger maintainance problems right now
<remi`>	hell, even _metacity_ ships .a files
<mraudsepp>	please lets move on
<EvaSDK>	right
<mraudsepp>	I need to get work done and get to shop
<nirbheek>	Alright
<nirbheek>	Next up?
<remi`>	so what's the plan => eclass ?
<nirbheek>	remi`, I'll write an action plan of sorts, we'll discuss in next meeting
<mraudsepp>	in the beginning we agreed its low priority
<remi`>	ah ok
<mraudsepp>	so propose a plan and we can see..
<remi`>	fine by me, moving on :)
<nirbheek>	2.26 stabilization
<Ford_Prefect>	On must be so tired of being moved.
<nirbheek>	There are things that need libsoup 2.26 (like webkit-gtk)
<nirbheek>	We should begin testing and stabilizing core gnome libraries
<mraudsepp>	libsoup can be stabilized earlier quite easily, just libproxy related stuff has open bugs
<nirbheek>	Or less core ones like libgweather, and libsoup
<nirbheek>	What does gnome-keyring depend on for stab?
<nirbheek>	(excluding explicit DEPEND)
<nirbheek>	(gnome-session?)
<mraudsepp>	gnome-keyring, not so much. But if libsoup doesn't block webkit-gtk anymore, we can easily fix much earlier gnome-keyring to be just fine for webkit-gtk
<mraudsepp>	gnome-keyring-2.26 is NOT a requirement for webkit-gtk
<mraudsepp>	after we
<mraudsepp>	a) patch an earlier version to have proper C++ guards
<mraudsepp>	b) patch webkit-gtk to be fine with earlier versions
<nirbheek>	Earlier versions of what?
<mraudsepp>	fix libsoup-2.26 related bugs (libproxy) and I can make webkit-gtk happy with gnome-keyring-2.22
<nirbheek>	Other stable apps?
<nirbheek>	Which bugs are those?
<mraudsepp>	circular deps is a big one for me.
<nirbheek>	Ugh, difficult to fix
<nirbheek>	http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=269747
<mraudsepp>	I don't want to see new circulars
<EvaSDK>	this one is going to be hard to avoid
<mraudsepp>	we already have users bitching around in random blog comments about how hard it is to install gentoo from scratch due to things like circulars
<EvaSDK>	but I agree it's a blocker
<mraudsepp>	I even saw something along those lines in Linus' blog comments..
<nirbheek>	Hum
<EvaSDK>	we known the drill, splitting this stuff up is the solution but it's putting more pressure on mainteners
<mraudsepp>	well, not really that, but other random people
<EvaSDK>	who cares about linus ?
<DrEeevil>	linus does
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, no, it's about how far people bitch, and how many people read
<nirbheek>	ANd linus doesn't care, btw
<nirbheek>	he uses fedora
<mraudsepp>	http://torvalds-family.blogspot.com/2009/05/memorial-day-bbq.html
<mraudsepp>	we are famous
<EvaSDK>	I bitch about other distros, but who cares ?
<nirbheek>	That Randall might just be Randall Munroe :p
<mraudsepp>	anyway, nevermind that
<EvaSDK>	ahah the foo is more bleeding edge than foo, I don't buy this stuff...
<DrEeevil>	it isn't
<remi`>	topic ...
<nirbheek>	Do you know how tough it is to get btrfs on ubuntu? <.<
<mraudsepp>	I see circular deps on fresh installs bothering users so much they comment on blogs about it, it's telling.
<EvaSDK>	focus :)
<nirbheek>	We need to fix this circular dep
<mraudsepp>	so fix that wrt libproxy and webkit-gtk security bug is fine
<remi`>	nirbheek: dude, stop taking this off track, _you_ wanted the meeting in the first place :)
<mraudsepp>	now back to overall GNOME-2.26...
<nirbheek>	Can we get PDEPEND on gvfs in libgnome?
<mraudsepp>	lets not discuss specific bugs in a meeting
<EvaSDK>	isn't it the case already ?
<mraudsepp>	comment on the bug
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, it's a RDEPEND
<mraudsepp>	GNOME-2.26 stabilization. I hope someone can work on this...
<EvaSDK>	anyway wrt to current state of gnome 2.26, check the tracker, there is nothing much left to do, a few bumps stalled because tests do not pass
<mraudsepp>	I will be taking notes on the order I manage to upgrade things, and take notes on issues to cover in upgrade guide
<EvaSDK>	and I won't start stabilizing without having filled upstreams bugs for all this stuff
<nirbheek>	Oh, btw
<nirbheek>	g-p-m tests don't pass because there's no g-p-m running :p
<nirbheek>	We need to either start it locally in src_test
<nirbheek>	or something
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: focus
<nirbheek>	So next, what
<mraudsepp>	or next time I refuse an impromptu meeting without agenda
<nirbheek>	okay :p
<mraudsepp>	we don't need to talk specific bugs that simply need fixes by one of us in a whole team meeting
<nirbheek>	So what else is required of us team-wise?
<mraudsepp>	what's on your agenda?
<nirbheek>	Branding?
<remi`>	(looks like we're done...)
<mraudsepp>	we are not done
<remi`>	nirbheek: what about it?
<nirbheek>	remi`, we don't have any
<mraudsepp>	we have at least team lead election
<nirbheek>	Ah, yes, I vote to make mraudsepp lead till dang gets back
<nirbheek>	or, we could not have a lead at all (like mozilla and python herds)
<remi`>	nirbheek: let the man actually run for the job...
<mraudsepp>	I think EvaSDK didn't want to run?
<nirbheek>	Alright, I run too, and I vote for myself :p
<remi`>	nirbheek: really, be serious for a minute
<nirbheek>	Alright, whoever wants to run for lead, raise hand
<mraudsepp>	I believe the serious choice is between me, EvaSDK and both
*remi` doesn't want to run
*nirbheek won't be taken seriously if he runs
<remi`>	EvaSDK: what say you?
*DrEeevil claims neutrality
<Ford_Prefect>	nirbheek won't be taken seriously even if he does not run :P
*EvaSDK don't really want to run
<EvaSDK>	I spend too much time on gentoo stuff already
<mraudsepp>	I'm fine with being that lead figurehead
<mraudsepp>	but be afraid, I might actually shove tasks on you all ;d
<remi`>	it's a done deal then
<Ford_Prefect>	So we welcome our new Estonian overlord?
<EvaSDK>	that wouldn't be as bad as what I'd do
<EvaSDK>	:)
<Ford_Prefect>	(not so new in my case :P)
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, the pedant lead
<EvaSDK>	so ++ mraudsepp 
<nirbheek>	++
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: I'm nitpicking so we keep a minimum QA level
<EvaSDK>	I hate having to search for stuff on the web because it's so slow :)
<EvaSDK>	so if my count is good, we're done on election
<remi`>	next item ?
<EvaSDK>	what's next ?
<nirbheek>	welcoming mrpouet
<Ford_Prefect>	mraudsepp, buys us all beer now?
*You've invited mrpouet to ##gentoo-meetings (wolfe.freenode.net)
*mrpouet (n=mrpouet@gentoo/developer/mrpouet) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
<mrpouet>	moin
<mrpouet>	:)
<mraudsepp>	hi.
<remi`>	mrpouet: hey, you just missed the meeting :p
<mraudsepp>	mrpouet: welcome!
<Ford_Prefect>	mrpouet, welcome!
<mraudsepp>	he didn't miss it yet
<nirbheek>	mrpouet, welcome!
<mraudsepp>	our last meeting topic was welcoming him ;d
<Ford_Prefect>	And now you have to fix circular dependencies forever because you missed it!
<mraudsepp>	yeah!
<nirbheek>	yesh.
<nirbheek>	mrpouet, fix http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=269747
<Ford_Prefect>	And can mraudsepp and mrpouet please not have the same initials? :P
<nirbheek>	Our uber-high priority bug
<mraudsepp>	ACTION: Update project page with new member and new lead
<nirbheek>	Agreed, do it
<Ford_Prefect>	I saw let mrpouet do it. :)
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: this is just a standard thing to record action items for the minutes
<mraudsepp>	nirbheek: you should use it.
<Ford_Prefect>	So he knows where the page is. :)
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, alright
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, Yes, good experience with guidexml too
<nirbheek>	ACTION: Buy bananas
<mraudsepp>	I can update that stuff, I want to update the task items there too
<Ford_Prefect>	Cool
<mrpouet>	mraudsepp, thanks Ford_Prefect thanks :) (sorry i was busy but i'm here now)
<mraudsepp>	regarding nickname
<Ford_Prefect>	Hey, I was just kidding
<mraudsepp>	sorry, I kind of want to be mraudsepp frmo office
<mraudsepp>	from*
<mraudsepp>	as I'm discussing day-job stuff over IRC too.
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, just be _mraudsepp :p
<Ford_Prefect>	It's okay. All the confusion will help. ;)
<mraudsepp>	and well, Mart Raudsepp is actually my real name, if you didn't know :)
*DrEeevil wonders if MrAudsepp will ever become DrAudsepp ;)
<nirbheek>	If he didn't know, he does now
<nirbheek>	Hey, wait, steev is in gnome herd?
<mrpouet>	yeah i'll have a look to this bug, but i need to test my gentoo services before :p (at least my email and my account)
<mrpouet>	:)
<mraudsepp>	now, the only topic we could conceivably still have that's important enough
<mraudsepp>	is figuring out a good time for regular meetings
<Ford_Prefect>	Same time, Tuesdays?
<Ford_Prefect>	Since Mondays can be a little unpredictable at times
<mraudsepp>	the time isn't good for me
<nirbheek>	Bit early?
<mraudsepp>	I haven't gotten done anything at work as this dragged on needlessly
<Ford_Prefect>	1900 UTC?
<mraudsepp>	17:00 UTC onwards is fine for me
<mraudsepp>	it is ~16:15 UTC at the moment
<Ford_Prefect>	1700+ is fine for me too
<nirbheek>	mraudsepp, this was a preliminary meeting, hence time got wasted
<nirbheek>	1700+ UTC every other week
<nirbheek>	Tuesday
<Ford_Prefect>	Oh yeah, eff, I was calculating by DST
<mraudsepp>	Tuesdays, Wednesday and Thursday 17:00 UTC and later is fine for me
<mraudsepp>	except on council meeting days
<mraudsepp>	if re-elected, that is
<Ford_Prefect>	What do the rest think?
*nirbheek is fine
<mraudsepp>	Wednesday is best, Tuesdays and Thursdays 17:00 UTC might be too early, playing table tennis often then.
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect's time is a subset of mine, so if he's fine, so am I
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, remi` ?
<mraudsepp>	but often getting home exactly 17:00 anyways then, so I guess nevermind that comment.
<Ford_Prefect>	nirbheek, you forgot mrpouet :)
<EvaSDK>	1700 UTC is my usual commiting time
<EvaSDK>	so I'd rather avoid it
<nirbheek>	Ford_Prefect, oh, right
<mraudsepp>	1800 UTC then?
<EvaSDK>	I spend too much time at work already
<nirbheek>	EvaSDK, committing to GF or work? ;)
<EvaSDK>	1800 UTC, I'm barely home, most likely still walking
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek: commuting sorry
<nirbheek>	1830 UTC will be _late_ for me
<nirbheek>	midnight
<nirbheek>	How about earlier in the day?
<nirbheek>	Since dang isn't around, so we need to cope with Europe and Asia only
*EvaSDK needs to go to the lab, back in 5 minutes
<mraudsepp>	mrpouet: what time ranges would be suitable for you?
*nirbheek goes to get some food, back in 10 mins
<mrpouet>	mraudsepp, for me i can be connected all the days between 5h30 p.m and 11h p.m (GTM+2)
<mrpouet>	(during the week)
<mraudsepp>	local times, ok
<mrpouet>	and i'm available all the times during the week end
<mrpouet>	:)
<nirbheek>	In other words, no life
<mraudsepp>	so that's until 2100 UTC
<mrpouet>	nirbheek, no hard geek
<nirbheek>	mrpouet, synonymous 
<mrpouet>	not the same thing :p
<mrpouet>	nirbheek, indeed :D
<nirbheek>	That means "same thing" :p
<mraudsepp>	so I think we are mostly needing a suitable time from EvaSDK ;d
<nirbheek>	remi`, hasn't said anything
<EvaSDK>	so not on monday and friday evenings
<mraudsepp>	tuesday you said gf evening before
<EvaSDK>	uh yeah tuesday
<EvaSDK>	not monday, monday is fine
<mraudsepp>	monday quite fine for me too, a bit volatile for Ford_Prefect I understood, maybe comporisable?
<remi`>	nirbheek: just pick a time :)
<mraudsepp>	(Monday evening 17:00 UTC and later)
<Ford_Prefect>	Should be fine.
<remi`>	either I can make it, or I can't
<nirbheek>	Can you kick?
<nirbheek>	Because someone needs kicking on #-dev
<remi`>	don't hold back meetings if I can't make it, I'm definitely not the most important person to have around these days
<mraudsepp>	EvaSDK: anyway, day didn't seem so much of an issue. The time, as in at what clock was, if you commute at some point, and after that point nirbheek has midnight
<Ford_Prefect>	He turns into a beast
<Ford_Prefect>	A sleeping beast :)
<EvaSDK>	can we close this now ?
<EvaSDK>	nirbheek will write minutes and sum'up open topics
<nirbheek>	Sure
<EvaSDK>	we can always setup ical stuff later
<nirbheek>	mmmm
<nirbheek>	So, meeting is officially at an end
<nirbheek>	You shall all be kicked now
*nirbheek has kicked DrEeevil from ##gentoo-meetings: nirbheek
*nirbheek has kicked EvaSDK from ##gentoo-meetings: Ford_Prefect leio mraudsepp mrpouet remi` tanderson Meeting over
*nirbheek has kicked Ford_Prefect from ##gentoo-meetings:  Meeting over
*nirbheek has kicked leio from ##gentoo-meetings:   Meeting over
*leio (n=leio@gentoo/developer/leio) has joined ##gentoo-meetings
*nirbheek has kicked mraudsepp from ##gentoo-meetings:    Meeting over
*nirbheek has kicked mrpouet from ##gentoo-meetings:     Meeting over
*nirbheek has kicked remi` from ##gentoo-meetings:      Meeting over
*nirbheek has kicked tanderson from ##gentoo-meetings: Meeting over
*You have been kicked from ##gentoo-meetings by nirbheek: Meeting over
**** ENDING LOGGING AT Mon 2009

