Jun 15th, 2009 -- ##gentoo-meetings@FreeNode

First GNOME herd meeting

Attendance:

* dang <-- away
* EvaSDK <-- present
* Ford_Prefect <-- present
* leio (mraudsepp) <-- present
* mrpouet <-- present (towards the end)
* nirbheek <-- present
* remi` <-- present

------
* Organising bugs
  - Proper usage of bug keywords. assignment of bug priorities
    + (update policy page to reflect this)
  - Update bug wrangling guidelines for GNOME project
    + Borrow from x11 guidelines
  - A "maintenance page" in the gnome doc space
    + Templated bugzie queries for different "levels" of bugs
    + Keyword bugs, Blocker bugs, Tracker bugs, Enhancement bugs, etc.
    + Will allow more visibility for bugs

--> nirbheek will do this

------
* Removal of "GNOME" component from bugzie
  - Depends on auto-assign decision

--> Ford_Prefect will take care of this (infra side)

------
* GNOME eclass sucks
  - http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=262490 -- tracker bug
  - USE=doc management is inconsistent, and unflexible
    + It should atleast check for GTK_DOC_INIT before passing $(use_enable gtk-doc)
    + USE=doc means rebuilding of api-docs right now, advantages seem to be uncertain

--> dang was doing research

    + Consensus was to use USE=doc for api-docs, and install user documentation
      unconditionally
  - eclass does lots of unneeded things right now gnome2_omf_fix for instance
    + http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=256379
  - The eclass needs an overhaul. Low-priority, however.

--> Low-priority, no owner -- free for all

------
* Static libraries
  - Consensus was to only have static libs for glib and C++ bindings. And to add
    it to the eclass as --disable-static for the rest (to be overriden on a
    per-package basis).
  - Anything that uses gtk+ will not work with static libs because gtk+ uses 
    dynamic loading

--> leio will find packages that need static libraries to NOT be built

--> No global owner, probably entire herd.

------
* Bad link-level deps which have nothing to do with the *DEPEND
    <EvaSDK> that's pkg-config being in a state of a limbo
    <EvaSDK> some packages assume some behavior of pkgconfig that isn't true on all versions or distros
    <EvaSDK> basically we're screwed from all sides with this

--> No owner, low-priority, need scripts to track this stuff

------
* .la files

  - Discussion:
    <nirbheek> lafilefixer works wonderfully
    <mraudsepp> I don't care ;d
    <mraudsepp> it's not a solution.
    <EvaSDK> lafilefixer is a hammer really
    
  - Consensus was:
    <remi`> with the current state of things, we should keep .la files for now

--> Postponed

------
* --as-needed QA
  - Not a GNOME project, but affects us
  - <mraudsepp> I have a plan for --as-needed QA, I need to write it up
    [snip]
    <mraudsepp> patch binutils to issue a warning when --as-needed actually drops a DT_NEEDED entry
    <mraudsepp> catch with portage and issue a QA warning on that
    <mraudsepp> then you can figure out what pkg-config file is stupid
    <mraudsepp> and fix it upstream

--> leio's project

------
* 2.26 stabilisation
  - Things like libsoup are used by other packages, they need stabilization
  - Example: http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=271861
  - Problem: libproxy circular deps -- http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=269747
    + Partly fixed by eva by putting gvfs in PDEPEND in libgnome

--> mrpouet will take care of libproxy circular deps

------
* New lead till dang gets back (election)

--> Mart Raudsepp (leio) is the new lead by default.

------
* Future meetings
  - Timing: Monday evening 17:00 UTC and later
  - Announcements: Unknown
  - Venue: #gentoo-meetings needs to be revived/begun. Failing which, ##gentoo-meetings

--> Probably nirbheek, or forced upon mrpouet

------
* Buy bananas
  - wtf?
