Roll call:
KDE devs: alexxy, bonsaikitten, cryos, hwoarang, jmbsvicetto, scarabeus, tampakrap, yngwin
KDE ATs: krytzz, reavertm, wired

Agenda for the meeting:
- unprefixing misc stuff
- moving plasmoids to the tree
- kde3 state
- moving printing to the tree
- upstream responses on packaging snapshots
- removing dead members
- pykde fixing
- handling kdeprefix for base... eselect?
- koffice status / what is needed
- moving meeting to another date (about 2 weeks before release of upstream so 
we can talk about what is needed to be done for current release)
- stable live status (if the guys working on it shows up ;])

 - Removing kdeprefix for apps not in kde-base
   reavertm explained that the goal was to drop the kdeprefix use flag for all apps
   outside of kde-base and that he already started the work for it (including a rewrite
   of the eclasses) in the dropped-kdeprefix-on-non-kde-base branch in the kde-testing
   overlay. This means deprecating NEED_KDE in favor of KDE_REQUIRED and KDE_MINIMAL, so
   that packages are built not against the newest available KDE (when there's more than
   1 version) but instead to the oldest - respecting KDE_MINIMAL.
   There was a long discussion about kdeprefix, its purpose, benefits and alternatives.
   The final consensus was to follow reavertm's solution.

 - KDE3 state
   tampakrap explained the eclasses are ready to move all packages under /usr/kde/3.5.
   He's still testing ebuilds and could use the help of 2 people to test kde-misc apps.
   wired and jmbsvicetto offered to help. tampakrap will prepare a list of packages and
   we're going to search for people through the page and a mail to the dev ml.
   To start the work on getting KDE4 marked stable, we agreed to get this work done by
   the end of the month - we'll be masking 3.5.9 monos as soon as we get 3.5.10 marked
   stable.

 - Moving Plasmoids to the tree
   Plasmoids were moved to kde-misc category and will be added when they're tested
   with +kdeprefix

 - Adding printing packages to the tree.
   We've decided to hold this until KDE-4.3.

 - Upstream response to the packaging snapshots mail
   No reply again. As we're being ignored, we've decied to repackage the snapshots.

 - Removing dead members
   jmbsvicetto will go over the retirement bugs and will send emails to the members
   that are MIA. He will get the team membership cleaned before next meeting.

 - pykde fixing
   There are some problems with having more than one pykde version with +kdeprefix
   as it installs files outside the prefix. The solution might be to "unprefix" it
   or to have a new package just with the python files. In any case, patrick was
   "nominated" to work on this.

 - handling kdeprefix for base ... eselect
   After some discussion we agreed eselect was not the solution

 - koffice status / what is needed
   scarabeus informed the team that koffice-2.0 is going to be released at the end
   of the month and asked what we should do about it. scarabeus suggested to have
   the stable release hardmasked in the tree. We agreed to try to get one of the
   rcs in the tree before that to allow users to test it.

 - moving meeting to another date
   We decided to have KDE meetings at the 3rd Thursday of the month.

 - stable live status
   We didn't discuss this topic.

As a final note, jmbsvicetto reminded people that we still have a *few* open bugs
and that we should all try to help get that number down.
