rollcall
ABCD, alexxy,dilfridge,tampakrap,jmbsvicetto

1) KDE SC 4.6.80 bump

jmbsvicetto and alexxy did a great job so far about it, with ABCD
forward-porting the commits to the live ebuilds. It is not ready yet though,
and we'd not recommended to users yet, unless they know what they are doing.
Upstream split some of the tarballs in order to follow the repos for 4.7. We
were very lucky so far, and upstream's split was very similar to ours, apart
from kdebindings, which we'll have to re-package to follow them.

2) Drop of kdeprefix useflag

The kdeprefix USE flag is announced to be dropped this Monday. As a result,
we'll have to move all ebuilds to slot 4. We could move them to 0 as well in
order to drop the slotting entirely, but since most of them are already 4 it
will prevent us from doing another massive slotmove.

3) Useflags in kde profile

It was decided these useflags to be added to the kde profile: declarative,
dri, kipi, phonon, plasma, semantic-desktop, xcomposite, xinerama,
xscreensaver

4) KDE SC 4.6.3 stabilization

First of all, dilfridge deserves congratulations for taking care the
heavy job of doing the 4.6.2 stabilization, along with Qt 4.7 and a large
number of other Qt and KDE applications. Keep in mind that this was a really
hard job to do, since the previous stable version was 4.4.5. Things are now
back in order now, with 4.6.2 fully stabilized and 4.4 completely removed
(finally). 4.6.3 is the next stabilization target, to keep stable tree up to
date.

*)Open floor

Andreas said he is interested in doing some cups work, which we hope to affect
KDE and desktop users in general.

We lost scarabeus, one of our top developers. Thus,
we'd like to remind anyone that we always appreciate the help of new people.
If you are one of the guys that already has access to the overlay, time to
complete your ebuild and end quiz then!
