1) New KDE Team Leader elections:
Scarabeus is the new leader with the majority of votes, congratulations

2) Review work flow for KDE minor bumps and improve collaboration with arch teams
We decided to skip this topic for next meeting, after preparing some documentation
on how arch teams can approach packages in the kde overlay.  For the record, scarabeus
proposed this model: (1) BUG (2) keywordlist (3) portage addition (4) touching profiles
while jmbsvicetto proposed first to ask arch teams to test new deps in the overlay, if
they don't want to use the overlay, try to add a snapshot or an early release masked in
tree and ask them to keyword it, then follow scarabeus' policy.

3) KDE-4.3.5 stabilization
The KDE team is ready on this, we are just waiting for arches to finish. When they
do, we will remove both 4.3.3 and 4.3.4 from tree.

4) KDE-4.4 status
4.4.0 seems very unstable, people are hitting crashes with krunner and plasma, and 
the virtuoso migration was not smooth for everyone. Thus, we agreed that 4.4.1 or 
4.4.2 will be a stable candidate, depending of the status of 4.4.1.

5) amarok / mysql-5.1 status
jmbsvicetto reported that it seems to work for most people for the past three days as
noone complained. Just amarok[embedded] needs a libmysqld.so as mysql-5.0 did. Jmbsvicetto
said he resumed his work to get a working patch again.

6) enterprise useflag for kdepim stuff (a use flag to follow the enterprise branch of the
kdepim repo, only for trunk)
The problem is that kdepim in trunk currently is broken, more specifically kmail as mail
storage is being migrated to akonadi, and it seems it will stay broken for a while. Tampakrap
tried to package the enterprise branch a week ago, but some packages failed to compile, so 
it may need more work. There is also an enterprise switch in CMakeLists.txt, but since we are
splitting the module, we need a new batch kdepim ebuilds that will block the current kdepim ones.
This will allow us to have an always working kdepim though. It seems a lot of work that noone
seemed interested to do, so we decided to announce it in gentoo-desktop mailing list and call 
for help. Tampakrap will do it.
Speaking of trunk, we also discussed about the 4.5 snapshots, and if we should provide them. We
decided that since kdepim is broken, we won't package them yet, until version 4.4.70. Alexxy 
will take care of them.

7) koffice status
Scarabeus said that current koffice needs review of its depedencies based on CMakeLists.txt. 
Tampakrap will do it and bump it in tree.

8) knetworkmanager status
Tampakrap said that knetworkmanager seems crashy, but people want it, so we will ask dagger to
create snapshot, as he is the networkmanager maintainer.

9) documentation status
Documentation seems fine, reavertm proposed to remove kdeprefix and maybe sets refference from
the guide. Tampakrap will take care of it.
Scarabeus with the help of jmbsvicetto will clean up the member list.

10) drop prefixes from kde ebuilds (like kdeartwork etc)
Noone agreed on this.

11) change kde-meta (and @kde-*) to include all modules (plus the developer specific ones)
Tampakrap proposed to have every single KDE module in kde-meta (including the developer ones
like kdesdk and kdewebdev). Many members were opposed, so the idea of a developer USE flag
for kde-meta was introduced. The discussion will be continued in gentoo-desktop mailing list.

12) stabilization of misc kde apps
Wired owes us a script that checks for stable candidates in tree.

13) patches of kde-packager
Jmbsvicetto and ABCD will take care of applying or opening bugs about patches that were
announced in kde-packager mailing list and need to be applied.
