[21:08:37] <dilfridge> !herd kde
[21:08:39] <willikins> (kde) abcd, alexxy, creffett, dilfridge, jmbsvicetto, johu, kensington, mschiff, patrick, reavertm, scarabeus, thev00d00
[21:08:40] <scarabeus> ok
[21:08:41] <dilfridge> roll call
[21:08:49] -*- alexxy 
[21:08:52] -*- dilfridge 
[21:08:56] -*- scarabeus 
[21:09:00] -*- tampakrap :)
[21:09:06] <dilfridge> :)
[21:09:14] <alexxy> (:)
[21:09:16] <scarabeus> dilfridge: so you have two lazy ex-leads :D
[21:09:19] <dilfridge> hehe
[21:09:31] <dilfridge> not counting those so lazy that they dont attend :D
[21:09:46] <scarabeus> alexxy: btw summer camp looks intruging so far, working on convincing gf to go with me there :P
[21:10:05] <tampakrap> scarabeus: I said I accept
[21:10:08] <alexxy> scarabeus: if you need invitation i can create one
[21:10:26] <scarabeus> tampakrap: wanna go to russia mid summer to see gentoo summer camp?; i forgot to ask ya at office
[21:10:41] <scarabeus> tampakrap: and for the above sentence you can say goodbye to your left arm
[21:10:47] <dilfridge> hehe
[21:10:56] <dilfridge> ok let's do this quick and painless
[21:11:04] <dilfridge> point 2)
[21:11:10] <dilfridge> move 484 to tree
[21:11:35] <alexxy> dilfridge: move it =) with reverted changes to kdelibs
[21:11:37] <dilfridge> i suggest *revert the kdelibs commit that needs newer soprano, *move to tree, *stable as usual if nothing happens
[21:11:39] <dilfridge> yes
[21:12:06] <dilfridge> adn scarabeus said same, so basically we have 100% agreement
[21:12:12] <dilfridge> cool
[21:12:16] <dilfridge> next point
[21:12:21] <dilfridge> 3) 490
[21:12:31] <dilfridge> so far I'm really happy with 4.8.90
[21:12:32] <alexxy> it should be in tree
[21:12:35] <alexxy> as ~arch
[21:12:37] <dilfridge> what do you think?
[21:12:49] <alexxy> i'm running it on laptop
[21:12:52] <dilfridge> me too
[21:12:54] <scarabeus> we agreed to add last rcs only back
[21:12:55] <alexxy> its pretty stable
[21:13:15] <dilfridge> scarabeus: ? dont understand
[21:14:18] <scarabeus> few year back we decided to add only last rc if desired
[21:14:36] <dilfridge> scarabeus: nah I dont mean 4.8.90, but 4.9.0
[21:14:57] <dilfridge> and that should be fine for sure
[21:15:00] <scarabeus> ah sorry for the fuzz then
[21:15:02] <scarabeus> yep
[21:15:11] <dilfridge> ok that's 3 yes :)
[21:15:11] <scarabeus> i can give ya spin on stable when you decide to roll that
[21:15:19] <dilfridge> yeah
[21:15:30] <dilfridge> next point
[21:15:34] <dilfridge> 4) udisks2
[21:15:53] <dilfridge> nothing really to decide yet, but please test
[21:16:00] <dilfridge> 4.8.90 and later has the patch
[21:16:13] <dilfridge> Philantrop says it has performance issues
[21:16:17] <alexxy> it works (tm)
[21:16:22] <dilfridge> ok
[21:16:33] <dilfridge> worst case we revert that in 490
[21:16:46] <alexxy> dilfridge: well if we ask pva to test, he will find tonns of bugs
[21:16:48] <Philantrop> alexxy: Check your .X.errors or whatever it's called. Doesn't it have a *ton* of devices being listed?
[21:16:50] <dilfridge> hehe
[21:16:59] <alexxy> since he has funny karma
[21:17:03] <dilfridge> devnum: 66305 dev file: "/dev/md127p2" 
[21:17:03] <dilfridge> devnum: 64512 dev file: "/dev/dm-0" 
[21:17:03] <dilfridge> devnum: 66306 dev file: "/dev/md127p3" 
[21:17:03] <dilfridge> devnum: 64512 dev file: "/dev/dm-0" 
[21:17:28] <dilfridge> Adding device "/org/freedesktop/UDisks2/block_devices/md127p3" 
[21:17:28] <dilfridge> Adding device "/org/freedesktop/UDisks2/block_devices/md127p4" 
[21:17:28] <dilfridge> Adding device "/org/freedesktop/UDisks2/block_devices/nbd0" 
[21:17:28] <dilfridge> Adding device "/org/freedesktop/UDisks2/block_devices/nbd1" 
[21:17:30] <dilfridge> and so on 
[21:17:31] <Philantrop> dilfridge: Exactly. That stuff slows down file requesters pretty badly if you have more than a handful.
[21:17:32] <alexxy> well i have all my lvm2 volumes listed
[21:17:49] <alexxy> ~12 volumes
[21:17:52] <alexxy> on my laptop
[21:18:05] <Philantrop> dilfridge: That happens *every* time a file requesters is opened.
[21:18:11] <alexxy> and i cant say that adding usb flash drive works slow
[21:18:14] <dilfridge> let's hope the RH guys fix it up, they should be interested in it too
[21:18:29] <dilfridge> I'll watch the fedora repo really hard
[21:18:34] <Philantrop> alexxy: You don't notice any difference in performance?
[21:18:59] <alexxy> Philantrop: yep i dont see any *visible* difference
[21:19:10] <Philantrop> alexxy: Interesting. Which KDE version?
[21:19:19] <alexxy> 4.8.90
[21:19:26] <Philantrop> alexxy: Hm... 4.8.4 here...
[21:19:42] <Philantrop> *4.8.3 actually.
[21:19:57] <dilfridge> well... let's just test... but one user on #gentoo-kde also reported slowdown
[21:19:59] <alexxy> 4.8.4 has same kdelibs
[21:20:20] <Philantrop> alexxy: True. Are you guys applying any other special patches?
[21:20:26] -*- dilfridge wonders what happens if you still have /dev/fd0
[21:20:28] <alexxy> dilfridge: its like infamous kernel iowait bug
[21:20:41] <alexxy> it may depend on hw
[21:20:44] <dilfridge> not really, no, imho
[21:20:52] <Philantrop> dilfridge: cannot access /dev/fd0: No such file or directory
[21:20:59] <alexxy> Philantrop: yep i have some special patches in kernel
[21:21:13] <alexxy> but they are for mm subsystem
[21:21:20] <Philantrop> dilfridge: Do you notice any slowdown?
[21:21:21] <alexxy> like memory deduplication
[21:21:24] <alexxy> and so on
[21:21:32] <Philantrop> alexxy: Ok, and for KDE?
[21:21:45] <dilfridge> I only upgraded today, so the kile that I started with the agenda was the first app to use it...
[21:21:49] <alexxy> kde from kde overlay
[21:21:55] <alexxy> nothing special
[21:22:20] <Philantrop> alexxy: Weird... I wonder what's causing it then.
[21:22:27] -*- alexxy uses texmaker
[21:22:33] <dilfridge> the list of patches for kdelibs looks harmless
[21:23:10] <dilfridge> ok anyway
[21:23:14] <dilfridge> next point
[21:23:21] <dilfridge> 5) 
[21:23:23] <dilfridge> bugs
[21:23:33] <dilfridge> I think we should postpone this since kensington is not here
[21:23:46] <dilfridge> any objections?
[21:24:24] <dilfridge> seems not
[21:24:47] <dilfridge> which brings us already to the very last point,
[21:24:51] <dilfridge> 6) open floor
[21:24:56] <dilfridge> anyone has anything to discuss?
[21:25:04] -*- dilfridge gets a sandwich, brb
[21:25:10] <tampakrap> yes
[21:25:37] <tampakrap> don't forget the gentoo miniconf please, I desperatedly need speakers
[21:25:58] <dilfridge> yeah
[21:26:23] <dilfridge> is there already anything desktoppy?
[21:26:49] -*- alexxy can talk something about hpc and clusters
[21:26:50] <tampakrap> whatever you want
[21:26:59] <alexxy> but i'm not sure if i will take part
[21:27:03] <tampakrap> I'd prefer a workshop where people can participate
[21:27:08] <tampakrap> but a talk is also fine
[21:27:09] <dilfridge> i'll come, just not sure about time for preparation
[21:27:12] <tampakrap> we have our own room
[21:27:39] <alexxy> tampakrap: simple workshop - how to crate smal cluster with rm in 30 minuts
[21:27:40] <alexxy> =)
[21:27:46] <dilfridge> packaging plasmoids for fun and profit
[21:28:30] <tampakrap> both sound awesome
[21:29:09] -*- scarabeus haz to cook, cya laterz lads
[21:29:19] <dilfridge> ok lets think about this a bit, but we will organize something for sure
[21:29:50] <tomkap> alexxy: +1
[21:30:15] -*- alexxy still not sure about visum
[21:30:20] <dilfridge> or I could tell something about LinuxGPIB and lab device control with Perl, but that's not for participation, only coolness factor
[21:30:44] <dilfridge> yeah the old problem :|
[21:31:21] <alexxy> actualy its simple one =)
[21:31:32] <dilfridge> ?
[21:32:24] <dilfridge> anyway
[21:32:27] <dilfridge> anything else?
[21:33:08] -*- dilfridge listens to the silence
[21:33:42] <dilfridge> perfect
[21:33:47] <dilfridge> that's it then cheers!
[21:34:02] <dilfridge> meeting closed
[21:34:13] <dilfridge> i think we just made a new speed recoed
[21:34:19] <dilfridge> :)