Present: alexxy, dilfridge, jmbsvicetto, scarabeus, tampakrap
Absent: ABCD, spatz
HTs: krytzz, papillon81

0) Elect new lead

nominees:
Accepted: bonsaikitten, dilfridge, reavertm, tampakrap
Refused: alexxy, jmbsvicetto, scarabeus

results:
scarabeus -> tampakrap
dilfridge -> tampakrap
bonsaikitten -> tampakrap
tampakrap -> reavertm
alexxy -> tampakrap
reavertm -> tampakrap
jmbsvicetto -> tampakrap

tampakrap is the new KDE Team Lead

1) Status regarding hal

Since KDE SC 4.6 is out, we don't need it anymore. As soon as 4.6
gets stable, hal can die.

2) Should we try to form a "stable KDE devs" team? Meaning just call for volunteers on the dev ml?

dilfridge stated that since most of the kde team members use ~arch,
stable seems to lag behind. The problem is very obvious now, mainly
because we haven't stabilized 4.4. The problem will go away as soon
as 4.6 gets stable though.
Apart from main kde, the misc apps are also slow in stabilization.
We expect users to request for stabilizations in bugzilla.

3) kde-git/eclasses migration and status, move kdepim 4.6 beta in tree masked

reavertm, Sput, and scarabeus did a major cleanup in our eclasses
and added git support to eclasses and ebuilds. In order to migrate
the eclasses to tree we will need to get git-2.eclass in tree first
(it is now in kde overlay as well). ETA: not less than a month. As a
side note, we decided to remove koffice-specific codeout of the eclasses.

4) Shall we drop useflags kdeenablefinal and/or kdeprefix to simplify code?

First of all, both useflags are masked. We agreed to keep kdeenablefinal,
since it is an upstream feature. About kdeprefix, the problem is that
bindings are not prefixed, and a possible fix (proposed by reavertm)
would be to slot sip. tampakrap said he'll work on this, and bring the
topic back in next meeting.

5) Dropping of semantic-desktop useflag with guide update (mostly even kdebase needs it on now)

This entry is invalid, semantic-desktop is not needed by kdebase.
The problem is in our ebuilds (plasma-workspace is semi broken,
kdeplasma-addons is completely broken). We have open bugs for those,
the problem is clearly in our side.

6) Making +consolekit and +policikit or removing the useflags as whole (non working stuff run-as is annoying)

scarabeus and dilfridge are in favour of dropping them, since it
caused a lot of trouble debugging various user reports. reavertm
prefers adding it to IUSE defaults. No consensus was succeeded,
the topic will be continued in the gentoo-desktop mailing list.

7) HT/overlay/bugzie access policy

Since we don't have a clear list of who is an HT and who isn't, we
decided to compile a list, and state what priviledges the HT has.
(HT = Herd Tester). Some people don't have time/motivation to complete
their ebuild quiz, thus we'll have two groups of people:
 * full HTs (overlay access, editbugs, access to ktown, IRC cloak)
 * overlay commiters
We decided to drop the KDE HT Lead title, seems rather useless.

8) LiveDVD issues

LiveDVD comes with KDE SC 4.6 as default DE, and we called likewhoa
(the guy behind it) to report any issues. He said that everything
seems to be fine, but random users wanted the cool gentoo graphics
to be applied to in-tree ebuilds as well. The KDE Team is willing
to do that, likewhoa said he'll provide us some artwork and we'll
discuss again the USE="branding" issue.

9) documentation status

There has been a major improvement in the guide, added some 4.6 specific
tips and troubleshooting parts, we need to add a hal->udev migration
guide, and migrate some texts that are in kde overlay to guidexml.

10 & 11) 4.6 (and misc apps with 4.6) status , Early discussion about 4.6 stabilization

KDE SC 4.6 is going fine, we all agreed that 4.6.1 could be a good
candidate, we'll discuss it again after its release. About a 4.6
KDEPIM version, no idea yet, we'll have to wait on upstream moves first.
Most misc apps seem to be fine with 4.6 as well.

*) Open floor

One major issue is digikam, it comes with lots of bundled libraries,
which violates the Gentoo QA Policy. We heard that Debian has same
thoughts on the matter, we'll have to bring them to table. Relevant
bug report: https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=265328

Desktop Summit! We were invited last year to Akademy to give a talk
about Gentoo-KDE, noone made it. Some of us expressed interest for
this year's event, which combines GUADEC and Akademy.