<johu> so let the party begin
<johu> 1. Roll call
-*- tampakrap here
<johu> ABCD, alexxy, bonsaikitten, dilfridge, jmbsvicetto, mschiff, scarabeus,
tampakrap, Thev00d00 
-*- dilfridge here
-*- alexxy +1
-*- mschiff here
-*- johu of course too
<scarabeus> yo
<johu> ok lets move on
<johu> 2. Electing a new team leader
-*- johu nominates tampakrap
<tampakrap> I decline
<johu> other proposals?
<tampakrap> yes, dilfridge
<dilfridge> why not
<johu> scarabeus are you interested?
<alexxy> he he
<alexxy> may be scarebeus?
<tampakrap> johu: are you interested?
<alexxy> =D
<scarabeus> are you guys insane
<scarabeus> why the hell i would like to be lead :)
<scarabeus> i would have to start actually care
<johu> scarabeus: because you are veteran
<alexxy> scarabeus: didnt you care? or you turned to m$ win camp?
-*- tampakrap nominates johu and dilfridge
<johu> ok lets vote if no other proposals show up
<alexxy> scarabeus: so you agree for nomination?
<scarabeus> nop not accepting :)
<scarabeus> let someone new do it
-*- johu votes for dilfridge
-*- dilfridge votes for johu
<alexxy> hmm
-*- creffett stays out of this one
<alexxy> cycle dependency?
<dilfridge> :D
<creffett> maybe we could recompile one with USE="-doc" to fix it
-*- tampakrap votes for dilfridge
<alexxy> +1 for dilfridge
<mschiff> +1 dilfridge
<scarabeus> dilfridge++
<johu> ok 5:1
<johu> bless the new lead
<scarabeus> (nothing against johu i just want to see dilfridge enjoy my post
:P)
<dilfridge> :P
<tampakrap> the post is mine
<johu> thx tampakrap for your work as lead
<dilfridge> thanks guys
<tampakrap> you are welcome
<tampakrap> congrats dilfridge!!
<mschiff> yeah thanks tampakrap
-*- tampakrap kicks dilfridge
<dilfridge> ow
<alexxy> =P
<johu> 3. Dropping RPATH from installed binaries (5 minutes)
<johu>  * Short discussion- any objections to testing this in the overlay
eclasses and later 
<johu>    moving it to the main tree if it works?
<alexxy> ghmm
<alexxy> may it hert someone?
<scarabeus> dropped rpath should work as is, so do it
<mschiff> +1
<scarabeus> doesn't debian disable it too
<dilfridge> I dont see any problems
<alexxy> hmmm
<alexxy> +1! then
<johu> lets give the removal a try from me
<dilfridge> it's basically a patch in kdelibs afaik
<dilfridge> to one of the cmake files
<dilfridge> I can prepare that, I've looked into the thing before
<dilfridge> (but have not tested the result before)
<johu> why was it introduced?
<dilfridge> it's default in the kde buildsystem
<dilfridge> and imho a bug in cmake
<alexxy> i think it was here for sloted kde versions
<dilfridge> the logic is:
<dilfridge> * add a RPATH entry for every library dir that is not in the
system library directories *
<dilfridge> the cmake bug, in my opinion, is:
<dilfridge> * directories in ld.conf are not automatically considered as
system library dirs, but only some static list of dirs *
<dilfridge> our qt4 is in a "non-default path", usr/lib(64)/qt4
<dilfridge> so cmake adds it to the RPATH
<dilfridge> but that's not needed because we add it already to ld.conf with an
environment file
<dilfridge> s/ld.conf/ld.so.conf/
<johu> any objectiosn from the crowd?
<tampakrap> fine by me
<alexxy> kill it =D
<johu> ok we move on
<dilfridge> we can introduce the patch with 4.8.2 and move it to the main tree
then
<johu> 4. Bugs (30 minutes)
<johu>  * Remove hard dep on media-libs/phonon from kde-base/kdelibs
<johu>   https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=356681
<johu>   https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=388041
<johu> dilfridge: yes its next week
<dilfridge> ok I'll make the patch for 481, it should apply just the same to
482
<johu> qt-phonon will be removed with qt5...
<mschiff> or should it bee || x11-libs/qt-phonon ?
<dilfridge> upstream says "technically you can replace phonon with qt-phonon,
but that's just stupid because you lose functionality"
<dilfridge> (kde upstream)
<johu> reasonable^
<mschiff> so maybe ewarn if qt-phonon is there but accept it
<scarabeus> we should go the other way
<dilfridge> i think we get into a lot of trouble with not much gain
<scarabeus> remove qt-phonon if desired
<scarabeus> but not the other way around
<tampakrap> exactly, I believe we should keep phonon as is
-*- johu votes for as is
-*- dilfridge votes for as is and close bug as wontfix
<mschiff> I mean if someone knows what he does and *wants* qt-phonon?
<mschiff> I wonder why Markos added that bug...
<tampakrap> find me one first
<johu> alexxy: your opinion?
<mschiff> otoh if it will be dropped soon... ok +1 for keep it as is
<alexxy> i dont think its good idea
<alexxy> we should keep it to make kdelibs functional
<johu> ok i will take of the bug after meeting summary
<johu> * Eclass problem with handbook without LINGUAS.
<johu>   https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=372457
<johu> anybody had a deeper look in to this?
<dilfridge> no... it's pretty confusing code
<scarabeus> the handbook code is quite magic :)
<scarabeus> you need reavertm to explain that
<johu> we need reavertm in every team meeting :D
<tampakrap> skip for next meeting? mail reavertm?
<johu> dilfridge: your first lead task
<dilfridge> hehe
<dilfridge> I'll try
<dilfridge> next bug
<johu> * Revise the change "semantic-desktop? -> semantic-desktop=".
<johu>   Why was the change needed.
<johu>   https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=396491
<alexxy> dilfridge: Mission directive for you: Find reavertm and make him fix
handbook =D
<johu> was before my time
<dilfridge> scarabeus: ^ that's for you
<scarabeus> johu: the goal was to enforce it everywhere
<scarabeus> it is ment to be global useflag only
<scarabeus> so set in make.conf or not set at all
<scarabeus> some packages rely on semantic-desktop capablities in other ones
<scarabeus> and this was easiest way how to ensure that user wont fuckup
<johu> and this is valid today
<tampakrap> I approve that change
<scarabeus> it should still be
<johu> ok tampakrap you are the volunteer for that bug
<tampakrap> ack
<johu> 5. Open floor (15 minutes)
<dilfridge> kwin does not build anymore without opengl support (or at least
gles)
<johu> yes
<scarabeus> tampakrap: so what with the stabilisation
<dMaggot> fwiw, I'll become upstream of kportagetray and hopefully
plasma-emergelog, I'll work on those next week and probably will release stuff
<johu> scarabeus: i would suggest 4.8.2
<dilfridge> dMaggot: cool
<tampakrap> what stabilization?
<tampakrap> ah, kde sc
<dilfridge> what's still bad in 481?
<tampakrap> I would suggest 4.8.1 asap, it has tons of bugfixes
<tampakrap> many crashes as well
<tampakrap> I would stabilize it asap imho
<dilfridge> I mean I'm running it and it seems to work finr
<mschiff> 4.8.2 has some important fixes too
<dilfridge> fine
<scarabeus> each version have important fixes
<johu> the keywords not restored so far
<scarabeus> question is: are those regressions since 4.7
<tampakrap> definitely not
<alexxy> scarabeus: no =D
<dMaggot> scarabeus: in kmail, I think
<alexxy> it only features
<tampakrap> and keywords is johu's job :D
<dilfridge> no, kmail got much more stable again
<scarabeus> tampakrap: and you have the query for the bugs :)
<alexxy> kmail works with lkml imap dir
<scarabeus> kmail 4.8.1 is already heaven comapred with 4.7.4
<alexxy> with 300k+ mails
<scarabeus> trust me i am runnig stable kde now
<scarabeus> and sometimes it does interesting stuff
<tampakrap> don't trust him, he is running opensuse
<alexxy> scarabeus: stable?!
<dMaggot> lol
<scarabeus> see my stabling of akonadi-server :)
<tampakrap> anyway
<scarabeus> to solve some bugs
<johu> https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=407709
<alexxy> ahh opensuse =D
-*- tampakrap votes for 4.8.1 with passion
<alexxy> its not stable =D
-*- dilfridge votes for 4.8.1
-*- johu votes for 4.8.2
<scarabeus> johu: see this is regression, if 4.8.1 goes stable just shovel the
patch to 4.8.1
<scarabeus> alexxy: i run stable gentoo , hardened stable gentoo
<alexxy> +1 for 4.8.1
<scarabeus> Linux arcarius 3.2.2-hardened-r1 #8 SMP Thu Mar 22 12:23:02 CET
2012 x86_64 Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-2600K CPU @ 3.40GHz GenuineIntel GNU/Linux
<alexxy> scarabeus: hardened desktop?
<scarabeus> alexxy: yep, same as dilfridge
-*- johu will prepare stabilisation
<alexxy> hmmm
<alexxy> i may try it on laptop =D
<scarabeus> johu: lemme know when you have list, i can showel it to my desktop
and test
<dilfridge> though I dont use hardened kernel yet... but I'll change that soon
<alexxy> scarabeus: did you enabled grsec? or you use only pax?
<johu> any other topics in the open floor?
<creffett> am I allowed to bring one up?
<dilfridge> sure
<creffett> (if it hasn't been discussed at a meeting previously), what to do
about all of the dbus-related test failures?
<dilfridge> sigh
<alexxy> its open floor so anyone allowed
<dilfridge> ignore them?
<creffett> because with a lot of them, we're patching out tests to the point
where the test suites are pointless
<dilfridge> honestly I dont know what to do there
<scarabeus> alexxy: both
<dilfridge> many of the testsuites are not even used by upstream devs
<dilfridge> my personal suggestion would be:
<mschiff> which is really ssad
<johu> the best solution for the test failures woold be to get virtual-dbus
eclass running
<dilfridge> * if only one test / two tests of many fails, disable with patch
<creffett> I was looking at that
<dilfridge> * otherwise restrict
<dilfridge> if you can make it work, that would be great
<dilfridge> but I've given up hope a bit
<dilfridge> also,
<creffett> the problem with virtual-dbus is that we'd have to dig into the kde
eclasses
<creffett> because you can't run a bash command in the virtual-dbus
environment
<dilfridge> dbus is a communication tool, so the tests need something to talk
to (i.e. a kde desktop environment)
<dilfridge> which means the tests may want to start up an entire desktop
environment in the virtual session
<dilfridge> :|
<tampakrap> I also have a quick topic when you finish with the dbus tests
<creffett> I haven't got anything else on the matter
<dilfridge> creffett: if you get this to work, great...
<tampakrap> OK my topic:
<creffett> dilfridge: I'll keep poking, no promises :P
<dilfridge> tampakrap: go ahead
<tampakrap> welcome new members: creffett (he has open bug), kensington ( he
has open bug as well), dastergon (he doesn't have open bug yet, but he has the
priviledge to be my friend)
<dastergon> :)
<johu> and welcome to scarabeus
<scarabeus> another ugly greek :P
<dilfridge> :) welcome!
-*- creffett waves
<mschiff> welcome ;)
-*- mschiff has another little one: I am a bit short of time working in kde
herd because we are building our new home here... but this will calm down in
May, so I hope to have more time again then...
<dastergon> scarabeus: the greek community is growing fast !!
<tampakrap> yeah, now that I left :(
<johu> any other topics?
<tampakrap> another short one
<tampakrap> I'm going to stop doing kde things and spend 99% of my gentoo time
in infra
-*- dilfridge sets linewidth in tampakrap's irc client to 20chars
<tampakrap> since mentees are shortened out and I don't have the leader
position any more
<johu> sad
<johu> :*{
<dilfridge> hey we'll miss you!
<tampakrap> not really, you don't need me
<johu> scarabeus: kick him from me in the office
<scarabeus> :D
<johu> 3
<johu> 2
<johu> 1
<johu> meeting is over
