[22:02:03] <tampakrap> alexxy / bonsaikitten / dagger / jmbsvicetto / lxnay / mrpouet / reavertm_ / scarabeus / spatz / wired
[22:02:05] <tampakrap> meeting time
[22:02:12] <tampakrap> http://git.overlays.gentoo.org/gitweb/?p=proj/kde.git;a=blob;f=Documentation/maintainers/meetings/meeting-2010-03-18;h=b056be61645fbd793cf07cb9d0eb968e961cb2c1;hb=HEAD
[22:02:21] <tampakrap> who is here?
[22:02:25] <dagger> mesa here
[22:02:29] <spatz> me
[22:02:39] <scarabeus> boss around
[22:02:44] <spatz> although my connection is flaky
[22:02:47] <leio> ping me when it gets to subprofile stuff I guess. Preoccupied 30 more mins
[22:03:00] <tampakrap> leio: i was about to ping me
[22:03:07] <tampakrap> ok let's skip it for now
[22:03:12] <tampakrap> s/me/you
[22:03:18] <leio> well, in that agenda it's last item anyway..
[22:04:11] <tampakrap> let's wait another 10 mins, many ppl are away
[22:04:31] -*- alexxy here ;)
[22:05:54] <scarabeus> I will start with the lighter thing
[22:06:00] <scarabeus> since there were no objections to new rules
[22:06:01] --> willikins (~rbot@gentoo/bot/Willikins) has joined #gentoo-meetings
[22:06:10] <tampakrap> woohaa bot is back
[22:06:13] <tampakrap> !herd kde
[22:06:16] <scarabeus> i will start enforcing them
[22:06:36] <tampakrap> where is the draft first of all?
[22:06:39] <scarabeus> so i will thin up team list probably
[22:06:40] <tampakrap> and why isn't it in git?
[22:06:52] <scarabeus> what for my rules?
[22:06:55] <scarabeus> i sent you mail
[22:07:06] <tampakrap> ok, commit it in git :)
[22:07:36] <scarabeus> http://dev.gentoo.org/~scarabeus/kde-team-rules.html
[22:08:04] <scarabeus> i would have to find that rst first :P
[22:08:15] <jmbsvicetto> pong
[22:08:28] <tampakrap> ok let's start now
[22:08:29] <jmbsvicetto> I just need a minute to put my things down and I'll be back
[22:08:34] <tampakrap> again who is here?
[22:08:51] <scarabeus> scarab
[22:09:09] -*- spatz ←
[22:09:09] <tampakrap> !herd kde
[22:09:26] <tampakrap> (it responds to pm at least)
[22:09:36] <tampakrap> <willikins> (kde) abcd, alexxy, carlo, cryos, dagger, deathwing00, jmbsvicetto, keytoaster, lxnay, mrpouet, patrick, scarabeus, spatz, sping, tampakrap, tgurr, wired
[22:09:57] -*- wired o/
[22:10:25] -*- alexxy partialy there or here or somwhere else
[22:11:09] <tampakrap> scarabeus: go on with the removal of members plz
[22:11:18] <tampakrap> what's the news on this?
[22:11:28] <scarabeus> well you didnt complain
[22:11:35] <scarabeus> so i will put down a list, and clean up
[22:11:46] <scarabeus> you had 1 month to write objections to my rules list :]
[22:12:14] <scarabeus> just to note, it has nothing against the named developers, i just preffer that people know who is maintaining it
[22:12:59] <jmbsvicetto> here
[22:13:02] <tampakrap> anything else on this?
[22:13:31] <scarabeus> only if you have questions
[22:13:58] <tampakrap> questions? anyone?
[22:14:52] <tampakrap> so, people are going to be removed from the team, i repeat: questions?
[22:15:13] <willikins> (kde) abcd, alexxy, carlo, cryos, dagger, deathwing00, jmbsvicetto, keytoaster, lxnay, mrpouet, patrick, scarabeus, spatz, sping, tampakrap, tgurr, wired
[22:15:38] <tampakrap> let's move on
[22:15:46] <tampakrap> Review work flow for KDE minor bumps and improve collaboration with arch teams
[22:15:49] <willikins> (kde) abcd, alexxy, carlo, cryos, dagger, deathwing00, jmbsvicetto, keytoaster, lxnay, mrpouet, patrick, scarabeus, spatz, sping, tampakrap, tgurr, wired
[22:15:51] <tampakrap> scarabeus: ^^?
[22:16:09] <scarabeus> it was written last time, wasn't it?
[22:16:56] <tampakrap> we were going to continue the discussion today
[22:17:10] <tampakrap> unless nothing new is going to be said
[22:17:14] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto: ^^?
[22:17:39] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: iirc I had only one change and it was accepted
[22:18:42] <tampakrap> ok
[22:18:43] <tampakrap> next
[22:18:54] <tampakrap> KDE-4.4 status
[22:19:09] <tampakrap> 4.4.1 is out, you said that ppl reported problems with 4.4.0
[22:19:14] <tampakrap> i didn't have any at least
[22:19:22] <scarabeus> i saw few people working on bindings finaly in overlay
[22:19:25] <scarabeus> which is great
[22:19:41] <tampakrap> indeed
[22:19:57] <tampakrap> can we have 4.4.1 as a stable candidate? regressions? blockers?
[22:20:02] <jmbsvicetto> It's working great here
[22:20:10] <jmbsvicetto> I don't have kdepim or kdebindings, though
[22:20:28] <tampakrap> kdepim is great, kdebindings needs work
[22:20:40] <dagger> I've got full kde-4.4.1 and it's good. I had problems migrating from 4.3.x with kmail, but it's all ok now
[22:20:50] <tampakrap> i guess we should pay attention on this and if there are no further problems we can have it as a stable candidate
[22:21:02] <spatz> schedule?
[22:21:33] <wired> 4.4.1 works great here too - and on colleague's system as well (users are best test :P)
[22:21:50] <tampakrap> i guess start of next month? scarabeus?
[22:22:06] <scarabeus> ok, i saw no more issues too
[22:22:18] <scarabeus> just check regressions against 4.3 -> 4.4 migration
[22:22:19] <alexxy> фдыщ нуы
[22:22:23] <scarabeus> and ok for 4.4.1 patch
[22:22:24] <alexxy> yep
[22:22:31] <alexxy> 4.4.1 works great
[22:22:41] <alexxy> also we use it at university
[22:22:45] <alexxy> as De for students
[22:23:06] <tampakrap> scarabeus: start of next month is ok?
[22:23:25] <scarabeus> yup
[22:23:26] <spatz> meaning two weeks from now?
[22:23:36] <tampakrap> no, stable bug
[22:23:43] <tampakrap> sorry misread :P
[22:23:44] <tampakrap> yes
[22:24:14] <tampakrap> unless there aren't any other things here, we can move
[22:24:21] --> dilfridge (~quassel@gateway.maximilianeum.mhn.de) has joined #gentoo-meetings
[22:24:34] <tampakrap> enterprise useflag for kdepim stuff (a use flag to follow the enterprise branch of the kdepim repo, only for trunk)
[22:24:54] <scarabeus> nobody sent any mail or word about working on it
[22:24:58] <scarabeus> so we should move it to todo
[22:25:04] <scarabeus> until someone feels motivated enough
[22:25:04] <tampakrap> i lack the hardware to proceed on this, plus i asked for help, noone answered
[22:25:19] <tampakrap> Sput: anything you want to say on this?
[22:25:36] <dagger> i dont know anything about it, but would like to get some information. what's different in enterprise branch?
[22:26:04] <dagger> does enterprise branch contain support for Openchange/libmapi?
[22:26:27] <dagger> (that's required for propler M$ exchange 2003/2007/2010 support)
[22:26:31] <tampakrap> enterprise branch for kdepim is the actual branch were kde developers care about
[22:26:39] <tampakrap> since kdepim trunk is broken right now
[22:26:47] <dilfridge> it's supposed to stay stable while everything else is being ported to akonadi (and broken in the meantime)
[22:26:47] <scarabeus> dagger: it is the branch that is more stable/solid, developers care about that one, because they are payed for that branch
[22:27:14] <dagger> so I guess it's not part of "default" kdepim right?
[22:27:20] <tampakrap> ok, we'll move this topic for next meeting, since there is no progress
[22:27:22] <tampakrap> right
[22:27:50] <tampakrap> let's move
[22:27:52] <tampakrap> koffice status
[22:28:10] <tampakrap> new koffice is released, i did a simple rename, and it currently is in hilarious status
[22:28:18] <tampakrap> some packages don't even compile
[22:28:53] -*- scarabeus told you so
[22:29:04] <tampakrap> i'll try to fix it, but i'll need help, anyone willing to help me is welcome
[22:29:16] <wired> i might
[22:29:25] <tampakrap> current ebuilds are hardmasked in overlay, tarball is not released yet
[22:29:31] <wired> okie
[22:29:55] <tampakrap> and we should be quick on this and try to have a schedule for stabilization too
[22:30:17] <tampakrap> as it also new packages
[22:30:34] <wired> btw i can help with quick-ish stabilization on amd64
[22:30:42] <tampakrap> sure
[22:30:47] <Sput> tampakrap: enterprise branch is based on pre-akonadi kdepim and supposedly works
[22:30:56] <Sput> but a USE flag isn't gonna cut it, the packages are too different
[22:31:20] <Sput> also we might have to check what they have outside of kdepim, I think they even ship a hacked kdelibs
[22:31:26] <wired> o_O
[22:31:33] <wired> kdelibs-lite!
[22:31:34] <wired> ;p
[22:31:37] <Sput> (but Paul Adams told me it should work fine with 4.5)
[22:31:41] <tampakrap> yes, we need a different branch for this
[22:32:01] <Sput> there was a mail recently on kde-scm-interest where steveire detailed how branches work
[22:32:23] <Sput> kdepim is in the process of moving to git (as the rest of KDE)
[22:33:05] <Sput> in any case, the enterprise5 branch is going to be based on KDE 4.5, the enterprise4 branch is based on KDE 4.4
[22:33:47] <tampakrap> ok thanks i'm going to add those info in a mail and try to revive the issue to users
[22:34:19] <tampakrap> moving to next one
[22:34:19] <Sput> also, it seems like KDAB doubts that they manage to get kdepim fixed in time for KDE 4.5
[22:34:34] <Sput> there will be a meeting in a few weeks where they are going to decide what to do
[22:35:11] <Sput> one problem is that they got their branching all wrong and lost tons of commits for kmail trunk
[22:35:25] <Sput> because people were comitting to the wrong branch...
[22:35:45] <tampakrap> okie
[22:35:50] <tampakrap> next one
[22:35:56] <tampakrap> change kde-meta (and @kde-*) to include all modules (plus the developer specific ones)
[22:36:12] <tampakrap> there were some ppl in the mail i send that liked my idea
[22:36:21] <tampakrap> so i'd really like to move on this
[22:36:24] <tampakrap> scarabeus: ^^?
[22:36:29] <scarabeus> with useflag you can go ahead
[22:36:29] <wired> im still in favor of this if we use a USE flag
[22:36:31] <jmbsvicetto> I still don't like that
[22:36:49] <jmbsvicetto> At least not in kde-meta without a use flag
[22:36:51] <wired> dev || sdk
[22:36:59] <wired> both are nice use flags :)
[22:37:01] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: what i said above :P
[22:37:05] <jmbsvicetto> :P
[22:37:34] <tampakrap> ok, i'll add sdk useflag to kde-meta
[22:37:47] <tampakrap> and leave sets as they are
[22:37:52] <jmbsvicetto> not as IUSE default :P
[22:37:54] <tampakrap> i don't care about sets anyway
[22:37:58] <tampakrap> of course not
[22:38:00] <wired> lol
[22:38:02] <wired> +1
[22:38:27] <tampakrap> sdk will contain bindings, kdewebdev and kdesdk? or should i leave bindings for now?
[22:38:53] <wired> do they work?
[22:39:03] <scarabeus> they do not mostly]
[22:39:09] <wired> do they build?
[22:39:12] <tampakrap> there are ppl working on them, so i guess they will in the near future
[22:39:20] <dilfridge> scarabeus: which bindings do not work?
[22:39:31] <scarabeus> csharp afaik
[22:39:35] <wired> if they build i vote on adding them, get people's attention :)
[22:40:11] <tampakrap> ok, i'll leave them out for now then, and add them later when they all build
[22:40:24] <tampakrap> afaik we don't even have a meta for bindings
[22:41:19] <tampakrap> thank you for this, next one is patches of kde-packager
[22:41:32] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto / ABCD(absent): any news on this?
[22:42:18] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: sorry not yet
[22:42:34] <tampakrap> so i guess you need help on this?
[22:42:39] <jmbsvicetto> I'll focus on this for 4.4.1 onwards
[22:42:40] <tampakrap> any more ppl willing to help?
[22:43:07] <scarabeus> i have to work on something different, so i have to blob out, so enjoy the rest  of the meeting, i will reply to pongs, but wont read
[22:43:07] <scarabeus> for latest topic i am with lieo (malformed for no highlight)
[22:44:10] <tampakrap> no worries
[22:44:15] <wired> scarabeus: is it something with leads that makes them be away all the time?
[22:44:20] <wired> :D
[22:44:27] <wired> j/k ofc, c ya later
[22:44:46] <tampakrap> let's raise the topic in next meeting to see if there will be any progress then
[22:45:05] <tampakrap> last topic and most important
[22:45:10] <tampakrap> split of desktop profile
[22:45:21] <tampakrap> leio / yngwin: your attention plz :)
[22:45:47] <yngwin> :)
[22:46:40] <tampakrap> leio: as i told you before, i really like the idea of mixed profiles and i am willing to work on it
[22:47:08] <jmbsvicetto> I like that idea as well
[22:47:11] <tampakrap> but i can't have an eta as i don't have a stable schedule atm and i don't even know how much time it wants to be finished
[22:47:16] <yngwin> me too, but i expect that will take a while to implement
[22:47:23] --> pesa (~Pesa@host124-126-dynamic.52-82-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has joined #gentoo-meetings
[22:47:27] <tampakrap> so i'd really like to proceed on commiting the patches i have prepared
[22:47:50] <tampakrap> so any objections? something wrong with them before i commit?
[22:48:48] <yngwin> no objections
[22:49:38] <wired> i haven't tested them (and i don't use the desktop profile :p) but i really like the idea, +1
[22:51:06] <-- pesa (~Pesa@host124-126-dynamic.52-82-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has left #gentoo-meetings ("Konversation terminated!")
[22:51:20] <tampakrap> leio seems away, so if you want you anything more you can pm me
[22:51:38] <tampakrap> i'll commit it this sunday fyi, i'll be out of town the next two days
[22:52:10] <leio> well, you know what I think
[22:52:26] <leio> (was here at start, but had a phone call afterwards)
[22:53:36] <tampakrap> cool, i'd take it as a :thumbup from the gnome team and proceed
[22:53:42] <leio> we have had the single desktop profile situation for, what? four years? So even waiting 3 months more to get the better method implemented would sound fine in my book, but as I can't work on that myself, I can't well argue against more subprofiles meanwhile
[22:55:00] <tampakrap> point taken
[22:55:32] <tampakrap> i guess the meeting is over, I'd also like to inform you i have updated docs, please check for any issues
