[20:00:10] <PSYCHO___> my dear friends it the time to start the meeting :]
[20:00:13] <bonsaikitten> masking 4.1 shouldn't be needed
[20:00:21] <bonsaikitten> MEATING
[20:00:22] <Sput> it is.
[20:00:28] <bonsaikitten> *ding ding ding*
[20:00:30] <alexxy> yes =)
[20:00:31] --> linex (n=quassel@60.54.93.166) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:00:35] <PSYCHO___> !herd kde
[20:00:36] <Willikins> PSYCHO___: (kde) caleb, carlo, cryos, deathwing00, genstef, jmbsvicetto, keytoaster, mattepiu, patrick, scarabeus, tgurr
[20:00:40] <alexxy> time for meating
[20:00:43] <Sput> emerge -DuvaN world will pull in 4.1 packages unless all your world entries use :3.5
[20:00:47] <Sput> it's quite annoying actually
[20:00:49] <bonsaikitten>  /mode +m
[20:00:52] <bonsaikitten> tehehehehehe
[20:00:53] *** Mode #gentoo-kde +v alexxy by scarabeus
[20:01:12] <wired^> =)
[20:01:20] <alexxy> heh
[20:01:20] <mortalmatt> Thanks a lot! Have fun with the meeting.
[20:01:20] <alexxy> =)
[20:01:28] -*- Sput had to fix his dad's world file to avoid installing KDE4
[20:01:28] *** Mode #gentoo-kde +v hwoarang by scarabeus
[20:02:02] --> cryos|work (n=mhanwell@gentoo/developer/cryos) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:02:02] *** Mode #gentoo-kde +o cryos|work by ChanServ
[20:02:08] <-- mortalmatt (n=matthew@p54A6D9A6.dip.t-dialin.net) has quit ("Leaving")
[20:02:12] <tampakrap> now we can start :)
[20:02:17] <PSYCHO___> :D
[20:02:30] <PSYCHO___> cant we have at least few devs anounce their presence
[20:02:37] -*- yngwin present
[20:02:44] <cryos|work> Look in the nick list...
[20:02:52] <yngwin> jmbsvicetto?
[20:03:15] <linex> hello
[20:03:25] <linex> I'm using quassel
[20:03:26] <PSYCHO___> cryos|work: well only you me and yngwin are online, rest is away :]
[20:03:40] <alexxy> bonsaikitten: ??
[20:03:43] <bonsaikitten> yes?
[20:03:44] <alexxy> are you there?
[20:03:46] <PSYCHO___> he is :]
[20:03:50] <cryos|work> Sucks - I nearly didn't make it. Compositing and Avogadro crashed my X server...
[20:03:54] <linex> I got the core running and I use my client to connect to it.
[20:03:56] <Sput> bonsaikitten is away-faking as usual :)
[20:04:03] <bonsaikitten> whut!
[20:04:16] <cryos|work> Its just a bot!
[20:04:16] <PSYCHO___> ok i guess we can wait few minutes if jmbsvicetto shows up :]
[20:04:28] <PSYCHO___> or start without him?
[20:04:29] <tampakrap> maybe reavertm too
[20:04:31] <cryos|work> bonsaikitten: Are you turing complete?
[20:04:48] <linex> Why do I have do pane of the same channel topand below
[20:05:05] <bonsaikitten> cryos|work: I doubt it, but I do have some strange loops
[20:05:13] <-- the_p (n=the_p@cust.static.62-152-211-38.swisscomdata.ch) has quit (Remote closed the connection)
[20:05:35] <victorlf__> does anyone know when dev.gentooexperimental.org will be up again?
[20:05:47] <bonsaikitten> victorlf__: it isn't?
[20:05:58] <DerKomisar> nope
[20:05:59] <bonsaikitten> right
[20:06:45] --> MartyMcFly (n=martin@dslb-088-066-055-066.pools.arcor-ip.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:07:27] <MrRat> linex: the top one is the chat monitor, it shows activity in all channels that you are in
[20:07:53] <MrRat> linex: you can move it
[20:08:05] <MrRat> linex: or hide it by rightclick
[20:08:16] <tampakrap> why is d.ge.o so popular?
[20:08:22] <MrRat> in the top bar^
[20:08:24] --> tbeadle_ (n=tbeadle@204.181.64.60) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:08:26] <PSYCHO___> because we have our files in there :]
[20:08:26] <linex> Ah ok. nice feature but I don't think I want it. Not right now. Its removable, right ?
[20:08:35] <tampakrap> what files?
[20:09:00] -*- Sput failed getting a shell on d.ge.o yet :/
[20:09:02] <PSYCHO___> tampakrap: snapshots of phonon4exampe
[20:09:03] <bonsaikitten> tampakrap: because it hots so much
[20:09:13] <bonsaikitten> right. someone fscked php
[20:09:14] <tampakrap> ah yes
[20:09:36] <linex> MrRat: I right clck. There Configure. Then what ?
[20:09:49] <MrRat> linex: yes rightclick in the bar above topic, where file,view,etc... is
[20:10:03] <linex> ok
[20:10:03] --> restle (n=restle@212.6.7.10) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:10:23] <MrRat> see "show chat monitor"
[20:10:30] <linex> ok, its gone. Its called Chat Monitor, right ?
[20:10:44] <bonsaikitten> there.
[20:11:24] <linex> Mr Rat : is it possible to have the traditional channel tabs instead of the tree-like on the left ?
[20:11:31] <MrRat> linex: #quassel for other quassel related help :p
[20:11:40] <PSYCHO___> ok i guess we should start so we can end up reasonably and hope others show up in progress... objections?
[20:11:41] <linex> MrRat: ok fair enough
[20:12:36] <-- tbeadle_ (n=tbeadle@204.181.64.60) has quit (Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
[20:12:41] <PSYCHO___> first on the nice list is just sumarising of previous meeting (read as what is not done from that list :])
[20:12:43] <yngwin> no objections here
[20:12:43] --> tbeadle_ (n=tbeadle@204.181.64.60) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:12:44] <MrRat> linex: however id prefer tabs myself too :p
[20:12:46] <PSYCHO___> http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/desktop/kde/meeting-logs/kde-herd-meeting-summary-20081204.txt
[20:13:04] <linex> MrRat: :)
[20:13:17] -*- cryos|work is listening...
[20:13:30] <yngwin> ok, what's the latest on 3.5.10 stabilizing?
[20:13:37] <cryos|work> For the record PSYCHO___ = ?
[20:13:44] <yngwin> scarabeus
[20:13:44] <PSYCHO___> scarabeus
[20:13:48] <cryos|work> OK
[20:13:52] <-- tbeadle (n=tbeadle@204.181.64.60) has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
[20:14:05] <-> scarabeus is now known as frogeater
[20:14:13] <-> You are now known as scarabeus
[20:14:42] <tampakrap> 3.5.10 is stable enough for the users but still there are many open bugs regarding it
[20:14:55] <tampakrap> and of course there is still the issue with the misc apps
[20:15:18] <scarabeus> is there any progress? or nobody is working on it seriously
[20:15:25] <tampakrap> the eclass has to be updated to make them prefixed to /usr/kde/3.5
[20:15:29] <scarabeus> maybe we should write on dev we want some volunteers
[20:15:46] <tampakrap> i'm ok with this
[20:15:53] <Sput> as a side remark: 3.5.10 will definitely be upstream's last release
[20:15:55] --> agamn (n=agamn@ip-83-134-215-20.dsl.scarlet.be) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:15:58] <tampakrap> i also can work on it but was busy with quiz and other things lately
[20:15:59] <yngwin> ok
[20:16:00] <yngwin> shame
[20:16:28] <Sput> some patches still go into svn, but no further releases are planned.
[20:16:36] -*- cryos|work has found it tough finding spare time to work on 3.5.10...
[20:16:44] <scarabeus> we need it stable in order to make 4.X stable :]
[20:16:56] <scarabeus> since only 3.5.10 has correct cryos magic :]
[20:17:11] <tampakrap> ok but i think we should concentrate on kde-4.2 release first and then to 3.5
[20:17:21] <yngwin> so let's do a call for volunteers to help squash bugs on 3.5.10
[20:17:31] <tampakrap> agreed
[20:17:31] <scarabeus> ok who will sent the mail on dev?
[20:17:40] <tampakrap> you :)
[20:17:48] <cryos|work> I will as and when I can send the time, but currently my spare time is at a real premium :-(
[20:18:08] <scarabeus> well i am getting my time pretty sqeezed too :]
[20:18:16] <scarabeus> so we shall see :]
[20:19:12] <scarabeus> ok next thing is kde4 eclasses are ready for commit to the main tree
[20:19:27] <scarabeus> after this commits, all in tree ebuilds must be updated and revbump
[20:19:38] <alexxy> and seems most of kde4 misc apps already ready for this eclasses
[20:19:39] <scarabeus> and users must use these versions in order for flawless update
[20:19:45] <cryos|work> I still think the default for live outside of kde-base should be changed back to what it was - doesn't directly affect tree ebuilds though.
[20:20:07] <scarabeus> cryos|work: ok that i missed, fix  that in some commit please, so i dont forget again
[20:20:23] <cryos|work> I will do it - I just didn't want to cause it to yo-yo...
[20:20:26] <scarabeus> make it +kdeprefix for everything live by default
[20:20:38] <scarabeus> cryos|work: i already agreed on it :P i only forget
[20:20:52] <cryos|work> Yep - explicitly setting to - will continue to work.
[20:20:56] -*- cryos|work goes to do that...
[20:21:18] <scarabeus> anything else to eclasses?
[20:21:21] <alexxy> but there still should be possible to install live kde misc apps with kde 4.1 or 4.2
[20:21:31] <scarabeus> alexxy: it is :}
[20:21:39] <scarabeus> you just need to set kdeprefix correctly first
[20:21:41] <cryos|work> It is - set -kdeprefix.
[20:21:46] <scarabeus> and for that you need to know what are you doing
[20:22:19] <alexxy> because some misc apllets exists only as -9999 ones
[20:22:24] <cryos|work> Anyone using live should know what they are doing...
[20:22:38] <scarabeus> agreed with cryos on this
[20:22:47] <alexxy> me too =)
[20:23:05] <scarabeus> ok i guess ecalsses were polished pretty fine :]
[20:23:10] <-- undetected (n=laika@27.138.45.66.cm.sunflower.com) has quit
[20:23:11] <alexxy> btw i saw kde 4.1.4 tagged in svn
[20:23:17] <cryos|work> They are looking good to me.
[20:23:27] <bonsaikitten> alexxy: yeah, that'll keep us busy next week :)
[20:23:29] <scarabeus> ok since he mention it SOMEBODY willing to bump 4.1.4
[20:23:39] <scarabeus> do we want it or need it?
[20:23:41] <cryos|work> Yes it was and I think tarballs are uploaded.
[20:23:42] <tampakrap> and what about misc apps?
[20:23:42] <cryos|work> It will be a nice bump to all KDE apps when the new eclass goes in.
[20:23:56] <scarabeus> cryos|work: good idea
[20:23:57] <scarabeus> :]
[20:24:00] <tampakrap> should live misc apps stay in :live and not in stable systems?
[20:24:06] <cryos|work> Kill two birds with one stone.
[20:24:07] <scarabeus> ok so we do eclass -> misc apps ->4.1.4
[20:24:37] <scarabeus> ok who is going to do actual bump
[20:24:40] <cryos|work> All live apps should be in the :live slot shouldn't they?
[20:24:52] <tampakrap> my opinion to this: ^^
[20:25:04] <scarabeus> can be in :0 if dev thinks it is needed
[20:25:12] <tampakrap> we shouldn't provide live ebuilds for stable systems, it gets maintainance a hell
[20:25:13] <scarabeus> but default is live
[20:25:24] <cryos|work> It seems like a bad move to me.
[20:25:33] <cryos|work> May be snapshots if it is warranted...
[20:25:38] <alexxy> we can make snapshots for some mis apps
[20:25:43] <alexxy> if they realy needed
[20:25:51] <alexxy> *misc
[20:26:05] <scarabeus> well we dont give users chance to use live in stable, and if they pull kde-crazy, they have to pick consequences themselves
[20:26:27] <scarabeus> agreed with snapshots if it is needed app
[20:26:44] <-- tbeadle_ (n=tbeadle@204.181.64.60) has quit (Read error: 60 (Operation timed out))
[20:26:46] <tampakrap> and what about the opposite? should we provide versioned apps in :live?
[20:26:50] <yngwin> i would suggest only make snapshots for things that should go into official tree
[20:26:51] <alexxy> and some things about kde :4.2
[20:26:57] <alexxy> it needs
[20:27:03] <alexxy> networkmanager 0.7
[20:27:19] <scarabeus> well i finished nm-0.7 with blessing from rbu :]
[20:27:24] <alexxy> so it also needs policykit
[20:27:59] <scarabeus> policykit is suspended for now, i spoke with gnome and they have it too, i would do it with cooperation, so we will have actualy better chance not to screw up :]
[20:28:00] <alexxy> also if we want to bump some stuff like kde printer applet we should have system-config apps unmasked
[20:28:31] <scarabeus> alexxy: one problem per while man, if you throw 15 problems we should pick up on what to answer? :D
[20:28:51] <bonsaikitten> let's start with the overlay situation before we discuss versioning ...
[20:28:56] <alexxy> scarabeus: its still one global problem
[20:29:02] <alexxy> deps of kde-4.2
[20:29:02] --> tbeadle_ (n=tbeadle@204.181.64.60) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:29:03] <alexxy> )
[20:29:09] <scarabeus> i know :D
[20:29:26] <scarabeus> important question about stable tree:
[20:29:35] <scarabeus> should we allow usage of +kdeprefix for stable users?
[20:29:49] <tampakrap> i vote for no :)
[20:29:53] <scarabeus> we had this nice discussion and i think for stable tree this feature could be disabled
[20:30:02] <cryos|work> I always voted no...
[20:30:19] <cryos|work> I think jmbsvicetto may have more to say here though.
[20:30:26] <alexxy> this fature should be use.masked
[20:30:32] <cryos|work> I am not sure this can be decided without others here.
[20:31:00] <alexxy> so if people realy realy want it they should unmask this feature
[20:31:10] <scarabeus> yup ;]
[20:31:33] <cryos|work> Sounds like a good idea - still a shame more devs are not present if they wanted to discuss this further.
[20:31:47] <scarabeus> alexxy: you have meeting about becoming dev tomorow right?
[20:31:53] <tampakrap> well, in case we provide this, we could not officially support it
[20:31:53] <alexxy> its will look like a situation with clustered lvm extensions =) they are masked by default
[20:32:00] <alexxy> scarabeus: yes
[20:32:01] <scarabeus> cryos|work: well this time i announced it properly
[20:32:20] <cryos|work> I didn't say you didn't - you did a great job coordinating the meeting.
[20:32:20] <scarabeus> ok i think alexxy can do bump for 4.1.4 as act of new dev :] so he try it too :}
[20:32:42] <tampakrap> +1
[20:32:58] <scarabeus> cryos|work: it was supposed to sound like i am sad they didnt come even with proper anouncement...
[20:33:27] <scarabeus> that handles in tree moves for 4.2 preparation, which is great :]
[20:33:34] <alexxy> heh =) i'll try
[20:33:49] <scarabeus> also one thing for kde-testing overlay, somebody should doublecheck for missing ebuilds, in last week we added 2 completely new ones
[20:33:52] <cryos|work> Sounds good, although make sure people are around to help/mentor ;-)
[20:34:07] <cryos|work> scarabeus: Real life happens... I am sure jmbsvicetto would have made it if he could.
[20:34:42] <scarabeus> yes yes he was looking forward on this meeting, he has few issues, and i think he would like to present his mysql magic ;]
[20:35:07] <scarabeus> so who is willing to look up on kde-testing, that is important think that should not be forgoten
[20:35:23] <cryos|work> What do you mean look up on?
[20:35:43] <alexxy> also i think we should sanitize deps of kde:4.2 packages
[20:35:47] <cryos|work> You mean bump to rcs etc when they are tagged?
[20:35:57] <alexxy> some of deps already provided by kdelibs
[20:35:59] <scarabeus> nope, there are missing ebuilds from dirs
[20:36:08] <scarabeus> for example some missing games
[20:36:12] <scarabeus> and missing applications
[20:36:22] <scarabeus> as example bomber and kwrited
[20:36:24] <alexxy> so i think this deps shoul be reoved from kde-base packages since they already depend on kdelibs
[20:36:30] <tampakrap> bomber added today
[20:36:37] <tampakrap> kwrited yesterday
[20:36:42] <scarabeus> tampakrap: i know, and what else is missing, that is the point
[20:36:51] <tampakrap> oh
[20:36:52] <scarabeus> someone has to doublecheck, cmakelists/directories
[20:37:03] <scarabeus> you wanna do it?
[20:37:17] <tampakrap> ok but we want two for this :)
[20:37:37] <alexxy> scarabeus: ok i'll oko for missing 4.2 apps
[20:37:38] <alexxy> =)
[20:37:43] <scarabeus> ok so you two :]
[20:37:58] -*- alexxy uses kde 4.2 as dayly desktop]
[20:38:01] <scarabeus> :]
[20:38:35] <scarabeus> policykit is suspended until gnome starts working on it too as i said
[20:38:44] <scarabeus> and one last thing regarding 4.2
[20:38:49] <scarabeus> there is printing dialog again
[20:38:52] <scarabeus> written in python
[20:39:01] <scarabeus> using system-config-bla
[20:39:02] <scarabeus> files
[20:39:53] <tampakrap> and something else
[20:39:55] <scarabeus> these packages are from dberkholz whom allowed us to mess with them, i think we should start playing with this in testing
[20:40:08] <scarabeus> and add printing later and not with bump of 4.2
[20:40:09] -*- dberkholz highlights
[20:40:12] <tampakrap> we should bump every kde-misc app to eapi2 in kde-testing
[20:40:15] <scarabeus> since it wont be correctly tested
[20:40:40] <scarabeus> tampakrap: what for, only if they use kde4-base
[20:40:50] <dberkholz> i mentioned to scarabeus previously but not to everyone. it's very important that you bump everything before testing, because current versions are very outdated.
[20:41:03] <-- bicyclerepairman (n=sam@host86-128-227-224.range86-128.btcentralplus.com) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[20:41:22] <scarabeus> anyone specialy interested in making this work?
[20:41:41] <bonsaikitten> :(
[20:41:55] <tampakrap> reavertm could do this but he isn't here :(
[20:42:08] <scarabeus> he said he wont have time today
[20:42:15] <scarabeus> he is only one properly excused :D
[20:42:41] --> mikb (n=mikb@c122-106-202-225.belrs3.nsw.optusnet.com.au) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:42:52] <tampakrap> ok, leave this one open and if he won't handle it, we'll announce it on g-desktop
[20:43:04] <yngwin> sounds good
[20:43:04] <scarabeus> anyone has something with regards for kde4.1/4,2 what i didnt speak of?
[20:43:28] --> looonger (n=quassel@host-89-231-128-7.rawamaz.mm.pl) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:43:35] <tampakrap> yes
[20:43:58] <tampakrap> should we provide versioned kde4 apps in live?
[20:44:04] <-- BCMM (n=bcmm@unaffiliated/bcmm) has quit (Remote closed the connection)
[20:44:09] <tampakrap> or only live ones?
[20:44:14] <scarabeus> in crazy you mean?
[20:44:27] <scarabeus> there should be everything we think that is not mature enought
[20:44:32] <scarabeus> for example those koffice ebuilds
[20:44:35] <tampakrap> i mean globally
[20:44:40] <alexxy> what about kde-plasmoids?
[20:44:52] <scarabeus> alexxy: you want them, you review them
[20:44:56] <scarabeus> :D
[20:45:01] <tampakrap> should we provide install of amarok2 in live and add block for amarok-live?
[20:45:01] --> tgurr (n=tgurr@gentoo/developer/tgurr) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:45:01] <alexxy> ohhh
[20:45:01] *** Mode #gentoo-kde +o tgurr by ChanServ
[20:45:08] <alexxy> and what about sets
[20:45:13] <alexxy> in off tree?
[20:45:27] <scarabeus> in off tree we can use them as we want i think
[20:45:39] <scarabeus> for tree we have to prepare metas, which will be done with 4.2 bump
[20:45:58] <alexxy> can we add sets to off tree?
[20:46:16] <yngwin> why not
[20:46:18] <alexxy> or this will be done only after stabilazing portage-2.2?
[20:46:37] <tampakrap> btw i'll write the guide for 4.2 and live this time for real :)
[20:46:53] <scarabeus> ok writing it up to summary :]
[20:46:54] --> undetected (n=laika@27.138.45.66.cm.sunflower.com) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:47:16] <yngwin> we can't put any sets in the official tree, but you can provide sets for them in the overlay
[20:47:25] <scarabeus> as said yngwin
[20:47:39] <scarabeus> for now we have to live with metas and be happy with eapi2
[20:47:41] <xdmx> guys, why don't you put the direct url for each kde application instead of the generic www.kde.org? i mean, let's take for example marble, it's homepage is set to www.kde.org, but i think it would be 100 times better to put its own homepage ( http://edu.kde.org/marble/ ). so one interested to marble don't go to the kde homepage, but to its own. what do you think?
[20:48:08] --> jbrouault (n=jbrouaul@ARennes-552-1-79-210.w92-135.abo.wanadoo.fr) has joined #gentoo-kde
[20:48:18] <scarabeus> xdmx: open bug and give us ebuilds and correct urls, up to then kde.org will be used, we wont search web for them i guess :]
[20:48:41] <tampakrap> or we could use edu.kde.org for example
[20:48:47] <xdmx> scarabeus: http://nopaste.com/p/aHK4XLra6 this is a first one (some are to recheck because unmantained, i don't know if it's better to set directly the usertech site for some..) :)
[20:49:32] <scarabeus> wow :] is anyone willing to do this? i am pretty sure i wont have itme for it, so i can only mark it as long term :]
[20:49:54] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: you dont wana use your regexp skillz?
[20:50:44] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: meh. maybe. if noone else can be coerced :)
[20:51:02] <scarabeus> i guess it looks you are only one left with nothing assigned
[20:51:13] <tampakrap> scarabeus: you too :)
[20:51:31] <scarabeus> nope i am with putting eclasses to the tree and fixing all ebuilds
[20:51:37] <tampakrap> :)
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> i think it is pretty annoymarble -> http://edu.kde.org/marble/
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kbounce -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kbounce
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kbreakout -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kbreakout
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kdiamond -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kdiamond
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kgoldrunner -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kgoldrunner
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> klines -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=klines
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kolf -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kolf
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kollision -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kollision
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> ksame -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=ksame
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kspaceduel -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kspaceduel
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kbattleship -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kbattleship
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kmahjongg -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kmahjongg
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kreversi -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kreversi
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kshisen -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kshisen
[20:51:38] <scarabeus> kfourinline -> http://games.kde.org/game.php?game=kfourinline
[20:51:43] <scarabeus> crap
[20:51:46] <scarabeus> what did i push
[20:52:02] <scarabeus> hm
[20:52:04] <scarabeus> interesting
[20:52:12] <yngwin> lol
[20:52:28] <tampakrap> please pastebin don't spam the channel
[20:52:31] <scarabeus> grrr
[20:52:35] <wired^> lmao
[20:52:51] <scarabeus> second time today quassel pasted when i didnt push that damn button :D
[20:53:15] <alexxy> scarabeus: cause you text contains newlines
[20:53:36] <scarabeus> alexxy: i didnt write it i marked it from buffer and put into my editor
[20:53:38] <scarabeus> not here
[20:53:41] <tampakrap> i think this is everything about 4.1/4.2
[20:53:46] <scarabeus> yes /me too
[20:53:53] <scarabeus> anyone has something in regards for that
[20:54:06] <yngwin> guess not
[20:54:21] <scarabeus> tgurr: your ebuild in genkdesvn for that pdf in scribus is broken, take look on fixed one in kde-crazy
[20:54:35] <scarabeus> ok we get to qt4 yngwin, you have something interesting there?
[20:54:42] <yngwin> yes
[20:54:50] <yngwin> i have several recruits now
[20:55:00] <yngwin> so it's starting to look good :)
[20:55:21] <hwoarang> :)
[20:55:22] <yngwin> hwoarang is doing good work on qt4-build.eclass
[20:55:23] <-- Psychey (n=me@1x-193-157-193-9.uio.no) has quit (Success)
[20:55:25] <tgurr> scarabeus: not my biggest problem atm ;) kernel is also broken on 2 machines here ...
[20:55:28] <hwoarang> ah hold on
[20:55:37] <hwoarang> yngwin and everybody
[20:55:50] <hwoarang> qt4-build class needs to be ported on EAPI2 standards
[20:55:55] <scarabeus> yngwin: great you should sent the other aprentices here too so we can meet them :]
[20:56:03] <hwoarang> this means that qt-4.4.9999 live ebuilds
[20:56:06] <hwoarang> need to change too
[20:56:07] <yngwin> yes, i think sping came by the other day
[20:56:10] <scarabeus> hwoarang: i guess on that you should use reavertm, he has great insight :]
[20:56:27] <yngwin> he's one of the qt-creator devs
[20:56:44] <hwoarang> ok scarabeus. will talk to him
[20:56:48] <yngwin> so, we have been squashing qt4 bugs
[20:56:56] <hwoarang> but qt ebuilds should move to qt overlay when it is ready
[20:57:13] <hwoarang> i dont feel comfortable to play on kde-crazy :D
[20:57:18] <tampakrap> i agree with this
[20:57:29] <yngwin> yes, we should have the qt overlay up and running in a few days
[20:57:44] <scarabeus> hwoarang: we dont bite ;D
[20:57:47] <yngwin> then we'll push stuff to kde-testing/crazy when they're ready
[20:57:56] <yngwin> scarabeus: we do :p
[20:58:02] <hwoarang> :D
[20:58:13] <scarabeus> yngwin: dont forget to upload kde-teams keys if you want us to help you ;]
[20:58:35] <yngwin> yes, i'll look into that once it's really up
[20:58:47] <scarabeus> :]
[20:59:02] <yngwin> another thing, i want to stabilize qt 4.4.2
[20:59:10] <yngwin> first split ebuilds version to go stable
[20:59:15] <scarabeus> i volte yes :]
[20:59:24] <-- hvengel (n=hvengel@astound-66-234-194-11.ca.astound.net) has quit (Read error: 145 (Connection timed out))
[20:59:38] <scarabeus> note: new kde4 eclasses specialy depends on splited qt ebuilds, i dropped the old mono qt stuff
[20:59:55] <yngwin> i wrote a migration guide, because i've seen many problems, but according to jkt and zmedico it should go smooth now
[20:59:55] <scarabeus> you need some help there from us or bug is filled and all is going fine?
[21:00:42] <yngwin> well, i need a stable system with qt-4.3 and PyQt4, then test if keywording 4.4 ebuilds and masking 4.3 really gives a smooth upgrade path
[21:01:18] <scarabeus> hm, read as: ANYONE ON STABLE HERE? ;]
[21:01:26] <wired^> whats that? :P
[21:01:26] -*- tampakrap 
[21:01:36] <yngwin> so i was planning to test that in a chroot tonight otherwise
[21:02:01] -*- alexxy uses ~arch ( read as ~amd64 ~x86 ~mips and ~arm)
[21:02:03] <scarabeus> ok you two can talk it out, it is up to you :]
[21:02:07] <yngwin> tampakrap: you have qt-4.3 on there?
[21:02:24] <tampakrap> no but i can downgrade 4.4 isn't even needed in this one
[21:02:42] <yngwin> ok, we'll talk about that after the meeting then
[21:03:03] <scarabeus> ook
[21:03:41] <yngwin> another item is qt-embedded has not been receiving any love
[21:03:58] <yngwin> but i probably should speak to embedded people about that
[21:04:32] <scarabeus> there i guess we are not much able to help :] only if as embedded can be count some cluster ;]
[21:05:36] <alexxy> he he =)
[21:06:11] <scarabeus> yngwin: btw i looked on hwoarangs eom today and give him notes, i guess when he incorporate the updates he will pass review from recruiters so you will get new coleague :]
[21:06:23] <yngwin> and i need to get a pythonista to mentor me a bit wrt ebuilds using python (mostly PyQt4 packages)
[21:06:34] <Sput> qt-embedded = Qt Extended now?
[21:06:36] <yngwin> scarabeus: great
[21:06:44] <Sput> or what is that supposed to be?
[21:07:03] <alexxy> seems qt extended
[21:07:06] <scarabeus> yngwin: when you are on pyqt take creepy look on pykde on the route i think :]
[21:07:14] <bonsaikitten> yngwin: I can try to help with python things
[21:07:15] <alexxy> since qt embedded was renamed to it
[21:07:20] <yngwin> Sput: yes, qt-extended / qtopia
[21:07:27] <Sput> k
[21:07:46] -*- Sput would like to have a Gentoo way of installing the Qtopia SDK
[21:07:55] <yngwin> scarabeus: i'll do what i can
[21:08:00] <scarabeus> :]
[21:08:03] <yngwin> bonsaikitten: great
[21:09:12] --> hvengel (n=hvengel@astound-66-234-194-11.ca.astound.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:09:19] <scarabeus> now i would like to know what is state of that mysql issue, but we are out since only guy working on it is jmbsvicetto so this note will be added to the summary additionaly, i would really like to have amarok2 on amd64 with kde4.2 bump
[21:09:45] <-- St_MPA3b (n=quassel@gregory51.dialup.corbina.ru) has quit (Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
[21:09:50] --> St_MPA3b (n=quassel@gregory51.dialup.corbina.ru) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:09:53] -*- cryos|work would love to see amarok 2, but thinks the move to MySQL as the *only* backend wasn't good...
[21:10:07] <yngwin> indeed
[21:10:17] --> neyz (n=neyz@ram94-6-82-242-23-69.fbx.proxad.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:10:22] <tampakrap> they are going to import others too
[21:10:25] <yngwin> i wonder why they couldn't use qt-sql interface, which can use various DBs
[21:10:43] <scarabeus> because *censored* *censored* *censored*
[21:11:56] <cryos|work> I am going to need to pay less attention to this meeting and more to work now...
[21:11:57] <Sput> no they are not going to import others
[21:12:01] <Sput> it'll stay mysql only
[21:12:07] <yngwin> ok, so we need to wait for feedback from jmbsvicetto on this
[21:12:08] <cryos|work> I heard they weren't either, but don't know.
[21:12:41] <cryos|work> I really question the intelligence of using such a heavy weight dep for a music player as the only option though.
[21:12:58] -*- yngwin just uses mpd
[21:12:58] <cryos|work> I am not about to go trolling, but think it is a step backwards.
[21:13:15] <scarabeus> well most of packagers think that it is step back
[21:13:25] <scarabeus> what for fully fledged mysql on desktop machine
[21:13:29] <cryos|work> In Avogadro we very carefully consider even optional deps, required deps even more so.
[21:13:43] <bonsaikitten> from my own experience I claim that being unable to use sqlite is a sign of bad design
[21:13:45] <cryos|work> I don't want to have to install things like MySQL on my EeePC...
[21:13:52] <xiando> they're censoring the chatroms! protest!
[21:13:53] <scarabeus> mysql only pseudoproffesional db :(
[21:13:55] <bonsaikitten> it can handle millions of items, why can't it handle 6k songs?
[21:14:05] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: be quiet please :D
[21:14:09] <Sput> sqlite can's work remotely though
[21:14:12] <Sput> *can't
[21:14:13] <xiando> 6k should be enough for anybody
[21:14:22] <Sput> amarok upstream is not willing to maintain more than one backend
[21:14:27] <bonsaikitten> Sput: uhm ... yeah ... let me just stab you a bit
[21:14:30] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: well i am doing some things as db specialist, so i know what is good db, and mysql never was such thing :D
[21:14:32] -*- yngwin has 21k
[21:14:34] <cryos|work> Why do I care if it can work remotely?
[21:14:43] <Sput> and yes, they didn't properly design their db access :p
[21:14:52] <scarabeus> thanks to embeded, they need to run on local machine which is also great
[21:14:53] <scarabeus> :D
[21:14:53] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: I've worked with sqlite and currently have >50 MySQL servers to babysit
[21:14:59] <Sput> cryos|work: many people share their db over several instances
[21:15:07] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: hope you enjoy it :]
[21:15:10] <Sput> cryos|work: I have a central file server, and with amarok1 I used to have a central database
[21:15:11] <cryos|work> Yeah, but everyone?
[21:15:18] <xiando> I like Amarok 2.0.
[21:15:19] <cryos|work> I certainly don't.
[21:15:23] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: I could tell you things, but then I'd have to shoot me
[21:15:30] <scarabeus> :D
[21:15:31] <-- Aw0L (n=awol@mx1.spfldsparc.org) has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
[21:15:31] <-- St_MPA3b (n=quassel@gregory51.dialup.corbina.ru) has quit (Operation timed out)
[21:15:35] <cryos|work> I loved amarok, love the look of amarok 2.
[21:15:37] <xiando> is this a good time to mention that I'd like koffice snapshots in kde-testing?
[21:15:41] <cryos|work> We are drifting off topic though.
[21:15:44] <scarabeus> hey i found one non flame topic
[21:15:49] <scarabeus> MONO bindings in kde4
[21:15:50] <yngwin> ok, before this becomes a flamefest, anything else on meeting?
[21:15:54] <scarabeus> do we ship them or not?
[21:15:59] <xiando> MONO is inherntly bad.
[21:16:01] <bonsaikitten> no
[21:16:06] <scarabeus> i volte for no
[21:16:09] <scarabeus> !herd mono
[21:16:14] <scarabeus> but if they will do them...
[21:16:18] <scarabeus> there is no mono herd?
[21:16:25] <tampakrap> lol
[21:16:26] <cryos|work> I would go with no unless someone really wants to do it themselves.
[21:16:27] <yngwin> do we have any apps that use them?
[21:16:44] <scarabeus> !herd dotnet
[21:16:45] <Willikins> scarabeus: (dotnet) compnerd, jurek, loki_val
[21:16:58] <scarabeus> ok i will ask them if they want to create them :]
[21:17:04] <bonsaikitten> haha
[21:17:04] <scarabeus> otherwise they wont be shipped then
[21:17:16] <loki_val> scarabeus: ?
[21:17:52] <yngwin> loki_val: if you want kde-mono bindings
[21:17:53] <scarabeus> loki_val: we have mono bindings in kde4, and nobody here uses mono, are you interested in it?
[21:18:42] <loki_val> I use only kde3
[21:18:58] <bonsaikitten> so it's dead :)
[21:19:05] <loki_val> Sometime when kde4 works for me, perhaps.
[21:19:05] <scarabeus> so its dead :]
[21:19:16] <scarabeus> loki_val: ok i will write suspended for now :]
[21:19:28] --> Vash63 (n=quassel@ip68-2-28-213.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:19:31] <Sput> did we discuss the overlay situation already?
[21:19:32] <Sput> bonsaikitten: ?
[21:19:39] <bonsaikitten> afaik no
[21:19:45] <bonsaikitten> might be a good time now :)
[21:19:45] <scarabeus> nope i leave it on last thing
[21:19:50] <scarabeus> because ti will be flame again
[21:19:54] <scarabeus> i have one last thing
[21:19:59] <tampakrap> no but we can't without jmbsvicetto and reavertm
[21:20:15] <scarabeus> you know how we handle linguas in kde ebuilds
[21:20:24] <scarabeus> how about move this magic to cmake-utils eclass
[21:20:29] <scarabeus> so every cmake ebuild can use it
[21:20:40] <tampakrap> agree
[21:20:51] <ni1s> How come kde-base/kde-l10n isnt in @kdebase?
[21:20:54] <yngwin> actually, i think there should be a generic linguas eclass
[21:20:59] <scarabeus> ni1s: it is in @kde
[21:21:10] <scarabeus> yngwin: well i write most abstract cmake stuff
[21:21:22] <scarabeus> if some autotools mage wants to step in and write the same for autotools
[21:21:24] <yngwin> ok, that could be a start
[21:21:39] <ni1s> scarabeus, yeah, but it feels very baseish
[21:21:59] <scarabeus> ni1s: it is not base requirement for system, and some people dont want it at all
[21:22:35] <-- gyama (n=gyama@89.143.147.33) has left #gentoo-kde
[21:22:41] <ni1s> scarabeus, ah ok
[21:23:00] <scarabeus> ok i suspend the move to cmake utils eclass for now
[21:23:05] <scarabeus> lets see how time evolve then :]
[21:23:14] <scarabeus> i will try to talk someone to try it on autotools :]
[21:23:33] <scarabeus> ok now we get to highly awaited topic
[21:23:52] <scarabeus> too many overlays someone says :] merge kde-testing to kde-crazy or keep them splitted
[21:23:53] <alexxy> overlays?
[21:24:00] <scarabeus> i personaly want them splitted like they are
[21:24:04] <bonsaikitten> merge
[21:24:08] --> ivanich (n=ivanich@ivanich.tenet.odessa.ua) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:24:10] <tampakrap> cryos|work said we should define a policy
[21:24:11] <hwoarang> split
[21:24:20] <bonsaikitten> there's too many changes that don't get applied to the other
[21:24:27] <tampakrap> but it is hard to maintain and sync changes between reavertm and alexxy :)
[21:24:43] <scarabeus> that is good point
[21:24:45] <alexxy> yes
[21:24:53] <scarabeus> but what about users that want only test something that is almost ready
[21:24:59] <wired^> split feels better assuming the eclasses are always in sync (or different per overlay)
[21:25:00] <scarabeus> we should use package masks?
[21:25:00] <alexxy> so we should efine policy for commiting tio overlays
[21:25:18] <tampakrap> yes it is easier to maintain this way
[21:25:23] <alexxy> since no one merge changes from one overlay to other if he commit something
[21:25:32] <tampakrap> personally my main duties was the syncing
[21:25:37] <tampakrap> *were
[21:25:42] <scarabeus> we can have merging supervisor ;]
[21:25:47] <scarabeus> tampakrap was great one :D
[21:25:55] <tampakrap> but didn't want to :)
[21:25:57] <Sput> merge
[21:26:18] <yngwin> depends how much syncing is needed
[21:26:26] <alexxy> to my mind its better to merge overlays again
[21:26:29] <scarabeus> quite much
[21:26:41] <scarabeus> well i like the split only from users view
[21:26:43] <yngwin> then i can imagine having 1 overlay would be better
[21:26:43] <alexxy> and keep live stuff masked + unkeyworded
[21:26:53] <yngwin> just keep live unkeyworded
[21:27:06] <yngwin> only hardmask stuff that is known not to work
[21:27:08] <scarabeus> if we are able to make visible only mature stuff for users which first checkout
[21:27:10] <scarabeus> i am for merge too
[21:27:21] <alexxy> two overlays is realyhard to maintain
[21:27:25] <tampakrap> profile.mask is the solution
[21:27:32] <yngwin> no
[21:27:44] -*- cryos|work was getting coffee and doing work...
[21:27:59] <yngwin> kde-testing stuff can go ~arch, and crazy stuff unkeyworded
[21:28:00] <alexxy> scarabeus: we can mask all live stuff
[21:28:07] <scarabeus> live stuff is already masked
[21:28:08] <tampakrap> right
[21:28:14] <scarabeus> ok that sounds reasonable
[21:28:16] <tampakrap> no it isn't
[21:28:29] <tampakrap> it isn't hardmasked i mean
[21:28:31] <cryos|work> If it is unkeyworded it is enough.
[21:28:32] <scarabeus> about masking
[21:28:39] <scarabeus> oh
[21:28:42] <scarabeus> my bad
[21:28:47] <cryos|work> You have to specially keyword and checkout an overlay.
[21:28:50] <alexxy> its better to have live stuff p.masked also
[21:28:58] <cryos|work> If it makes you happy.
[21:29:02] <scarabeus> :D
[21:29:04] <yngwin> alexxy: why? unkeywording is enough
[21:29:14] <scarabeus> unkeywording is indeed enought
[21:29:21] <tampakrap> no it isn't
[21:29:21] <scarabeus> i have to drink my cure, brb
[21:29:28] <tampakrap> in case of phonon it isn't
[21:29:34] <alexxy> yngwin: its too easy for user to unmask live stuff by error
[21:29:36] <cryos|work> It is already in an overlay, and has no keywords. You have to specifically keyword **/
[21:29:46] <-- Vash63 (n=quassel@ip68-2-28-213.ph.ph.cox.net) has quit (Read error: 54 (Connection reset by peer))
[21:29:46] <cryos|work> It isn't too easy.
[21:29:47] <tampakrap> people symlink everything and live phonon gets installed in snapshots' machines
[21:29:52] <yngwin> alexxy: they need to specifically add ** keyowrds
[21:29:57] <cryos|work> If it makes you happy and you stop bickering you can mask it too.
[21:29:59] <-- hvengel (n=hvengel@astound-66-234-194-11.ca.astound.net) has quit (Connection timed out)
[21:30:07] --> hvengel (n=hvengel@astound-66-234-194-11.ca.astound.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:30:10] <cryos|work> I think it is overkill though.
[21:30:13] <yngwin> symlinking unmask is easy too
[21:30:19] <tampakrap> yeah but they symlink the whole p.keywords folder even if i splitted it for every version
[21:30:29] <yngwin> that is users fault
[21:30:34] <tampakrap> the solution is a clear guide then
[21:30:35] --> St_MPA3b (n=quassel@gregory51.dialup.corbina.ru) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:30:39] <yngwin> yes
[21:30:41] <tampakrap> not two overlays
[21:30:46] <cryos|work> You cannot prevent stupid users from doing stupid things.
[21:30:57] <cryos|work> Just provide a clear path and reasonable policies.
[21:31:02] <yngwin> indeed
[21:31:05] --> Vash63 (n=quassel@ip68-2-28-213.ph.ph.cox.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:31:14] <cryos|work> It is too easy for a user to type rm -rf /
[21:31:21] <tampakrap> lol
[21:31:21] <scarabeus> :D
[21:31:24] <wired^> lol
[21:31:30] <alexxy> cryos|work: this wil not work =)
[21:31:34] <scarabeus> cryos|work: so what is your merge/split statement :D
[21:31:42] <alexxy> i mean rm -rf / will not work
[21:31:48] <alexxy> =)
[21:31:53] <wired^> [ $[ $RANDOM % 6 ] == 0 ] && rm -rf / || echo "You live"
[21:31:53] <cryos|work> I would merge, but don't mind too much.
[21:32:01] <yngwin> brb
[21:32:09] <cryos|work> rm -rf /* then?
[21:32:11] <scarabeus> ok so far the voltes are:
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> yngwin: merge
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> kitten: merge
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> scarab: merge
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> tampakrap: merge
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> reavertm: merge
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> alexxy: merge
[21:32:18] <scarabeus> cryos: dont mind merge
[21:32:22] <cryos|work> Still to easy...
[21:32:31] <scarabeus> so i guess we will again have one overlay :D
[21:32:33] <tampakrap> also sput merge
[21:32:34] <cryos|work> I would go with, but won't cry if you don't ;-)
[21:32:46] <jmbsvicetto> Hi
[21:32:48] <scarabeus> :D
[21:32:51] <cryos|work> Hey - he's here!
[21:32:53] <tampakrap> HELLOOOOO
[21:32:56] <jmbsvicetto> sorry guys, but I've been tied up at work :\
[21:32:57] <scarabeus> hi!
[21:32:57] <tampakrap> it's alive!!!!!
[21:33:08] <scarabeus> its moving, RUN :D
[21:33:11] <tampakrap> ok meeting is over we have one overlay end of the story bye
[21:33:13] <jmbsvicetto> I'm very sorry, but I had expected to be free for the meeting
[21:33:15] <cryos|work> I need to mostly disappear and get some work done...
[21:33:30] <cryos|work> Sorry I missed you jmbsvicetto.
[21:33:43] -*- cryos|work out - will read ML summary if there is one...
[21:33:43] <jmbsvicetto> I'll have to grab dinner in around 15 minutes. Is there anything I can clear up / explain / detail ?
[21:33:50] <jmbsvicetto> cryos|work: Hi. I'm sorry too
[21:34:09] <cryos|work> jmbsvicetto: Life happens. We tried not to steam roll stuff ;-)
[21:34:27] <cryos|work> I do need to go though.
[21:34:30] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: we were volting about merge/split overlays and all volted for merge or dont mind merge :D
[21:34:54] <jmbsvicetto> About the tasks I was expected to do from the last meeting: 1. mysql - I'm stuck at the patch in the bug - I wasn't able to do more yet. 2. contact people to check whether they want to be in the kde team - I'm sorry, but I didn't got this done.
[21:35:01] <jmbsvicetto> cryos|work: hehe
[21:35:03] <jmbsvicetto> cryos|work: later
[21:35:11] <scarabeus> :D
[21:35:20] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: ok, so my vote would have lost
[21:35:27] --> tinytony_ (n=tinytony@77.53.34.198) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:35:37] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: what was the 3rd task I had to do?
[21:35:37] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: ok for the mails i guess you will do it in future so no biggie in that
[21:35:54] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: the third one i did instead of you
[21:35:55] <scarabeus> :D
[21:36:09] <jmbsvicetto> Yeah, I'll try to get it done this week. I can also tell you some of them are under undertakers notice
[21:36:16] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: what was it?
[21:36:20] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: eclasses?
[21:36:23] <scarabeus> eapi2only eclasses
[21:36:25] <scarabeus> which i handled
[21:36:37] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: Thanks and sorry for leaving it up to you
[21:36:52] <scarabeus> no problem really, i had time so i did it :]
[21:36:58] <scarabeus> at least i know the eclass pretty well :]
[21:37:04] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[21:37:15] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: want to know mysql "intimately"? ;)
[21:37:18] <tampakrap> are we ok with moving eclasses to the tree?
[21:37:28] <yngwin> back
[21:37:44] <scarabeus> looks like i will do it on saturday i guess
[21:37:46] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I noticed reavertm seemed to find a bug in the eclasses related to the blocks
[21:37:48] <scarabeus> tampakrap: ^
[21:38:00] <jmbsvicetto> Were you able to sort that out?
[21:38:02] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: ok one bug, needs to be fixored
[21:38:10] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: he didnt tell me a thing
[21:38:20] <Sput> btw I even think that merging the overlays is less confusing for users than the current state, where they always need to ask around which overlay contains what
[21:38:21] <jmbsvicetto> I think he sent a mail to the desktop alias
[21:38:32] <Sput> there should be only one official gentoo KDE overlay one can point people
[21:38:35] <jmbsvicetto> Sput: I also didn't do the blog entry :\
[21:38:40] <scarabeus> oh i see
[21:38:50] <Sput> jmbsvicetto: which blog entry?
[21:38:57] <scarabeus> btw alexxy has review tomorow in case you dont know
[21:39:03] <jmbsvicetto> The one I was going to explain it (the overlays)
[21:39:08] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I didn't
[21:39:10] <jmbsvicetto> alexxy: Good luck :)
[21:39:18] <alexxy> jmbsvicetto: thanks
[21:39:19] <alexxy> =)
[21:39:35] <scarabeus> and i guess we should pronounce the meeting over uness jmbsvicetto has something new he wants to adres
[21:39:42] <jmbsvicetto> alexxy: I'm going to be busy tonight, but if you want / need to ask something, poke me until I reply ;)
[21:39:42] <scarabeus> oh missing letters, shame on me
[21:39:55] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: No, nothing to add
[21:40:14] <scarabeus> unit DISMISS!