[21:08:49] <scarabeus> LETS BEGIN :D
[21:09:07] <scarabeus> so first nice question is
[21:09:10] <scarabeus> WHO IS AROUND?
[21:09:16] <NoirSoldats> o/
[21:09:17] <yngwin> !herd kde
[21:09:21] <Willikins> yngwin: (kde) alexxy, caleb, carlo, cryos, deathwing00, genstef, jmbsvicetto, keytoaster, mattepiu, patrick, scarabeus, tampakrap, tgurr
[21:09:21] <yngwin> !herd qt
[21:09:22] <Willikins> (qt) caleb, carlo, hwoarang, yngwin
[21:09:24] -*- wired is here
[21:09:29] -*- yngwin is present
[21:09:37] -*- alexxy here
[21:09:50] <bumbl> xine-lib-9999 does not compile yngwin because of missing Makefile.in
[21:09:50] *** Mode #gentoo-kde +v reavertm by scarabeus
[21:10:22] <scarabeus> where are the other slackers :P
[21:10:37] <wired> slacking
[21:10:38] <wired> :p
[21:10:54] <yngwin> bumbl: see forum thread. if there is a patch/solution, i will apply it (tonight or tomorrow)
[21:10:58] -*- cryos|work is kinda here, ill, stressed...
[21:11:19] <scarabeus> cryos|work: hi :]
[21:11:59] <-- KotBehemot (n=dracul66@unaffiliated/kotbehemot) has quit (Remote closed the connection)
[21:12:03] <jmbsvicetto> ping
[21:12:20] <jmbsvicetto> Sorry for being late
[21:12:22] <scarabeus> ok we are closing onto desired goal >50% around :]
[21:12:22] <cryos|work> I think you need to ping an address, or is that a broadcast packet?
[21:12:24] <hwoarang> here
[21:12:34] <-- genady12__ (n=genady12@80.178.17.222.adsl.012.net.il) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[21:12:54] <alexxy> where is our main slacker? bonsaikitten are you here?
[21:12:56] <alexxy> =)
[21:13:09] <bonsaikitten> am I ?
[21:13:16] <bonsaikitten> yes!
[21:13:29] <jmbsvicetto> cryos|work: broadcast ping ;)
[21:13:34] <scarabeus> ok so i guess we can start, others would have to show up later...
[21:13:37] <scarabeus> any objections?
[21:13:54] <yngwin> none
[21:13:57] <jmbsvicetto> who are we missing?
[21:13:59] <alexxy> =)
[21:14:02] <yngwin> tampa
[21:14:05] <Philantrop> Carlo! ;->
[21:14:05] <scarabeus> tampakrap i guess and reaver
[21:14:14] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: :P
[21:14:17] <scarabeus> Philantrop: you actualy get him on irc at some point? :]
[21:14:17] <jmbsvicetto> Hi Wulf
[21:14:30] <Philantrop> scarabeus: No, he never was nor will he ever.
[21:14:34] <bonsaikitten> Hi Phil :)
[21:14:34] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: Hello! :-)
[21:14:39] <scarabeus> hehe
[21:14:52] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: carlo is a "mail" guy
[21:14:52] --> KotBehemot (n=dracul66@unaffiliated/kotbehemot) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:15:05] <scarabeus> yea i got that :]
[21:15:14] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: ... if he communicates at all.
[21:15:37] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: well, a reply to a 4 or 6 month mail is still a reply :P
[21:15:40] <scarabeus> http://www.pastebin.cz:80/15872
[21:15:44] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: :-) True.
[21:15:48] <tampakrap> i'm here
[21:15:50] <scarabeus> here is a list what we will chat about today
[21:15:53] <scarabeus> hello tampy
[21:15:59] <wired> tampy!
[21:16:03] <wired> lol
[21:16:32] -*- cryos|work only claims 42% presence --- man flu...
[21:16:44] <scarabeus> ok so we can start with kde3.5.10 state
[21:16:50] <bumbl> cryos|work: get well soon
[21:16:51] <scarabeus> cause on that we all probably will just listen :D
[21:16:52] <tampakrap> i'd like to say a few things about KDE 3 first
[21:17:17] <tampakrap> may I?
[21:17:20] <jmbsvicetto> Hi Theo
[21:17:21] <scarabeus> yes proceed
[21:17:22] <yngwin> say
[21:17:32] <tampakrap> ok
[21:17:39] <jmbsvicetto> cryos|work: yeah, my cold has been bugging me for the past week :\
[21:17:50] <tampakrap> in kde-testing i have a kde-3.5 branch with new eclasses
[21:18:13] <tampakrap> those eclasses prefix misc kde apps in /usr/kde/3.5 and permit eapi2 ebuilds
[21:18:38] <tampakrap> i have started writing all kde-base ebuilds in eapi 2 i have about 60 here
[21:19:02] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto told me today to try to get rid of arts and use a different backend
[21:19:18] <tampakrap> i'm not sure if this can be done and to be honest i don't know if it worths it
[21:19:24] <tampakrap> i'd like your opinion
[21:19:24] -*- jmbsvicetto looks innocently into the sky
[21:19:37] <tampakrap> and of course some testing of you people
[21:19:53] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: if it's too much work, forget arts
[21:19:54] <bonsaikitten> kill arts.
[21:20:05] <yngwin> in my opinion kde 3.5.10 works as is, and i wouldnt spend too much time on 'improving' the ebuilds
[21:20:07] <tampakrap> especially the kde4 guys, as the pending big issue is the proper use of kde3 apps inside kde4 environment
[21:20:12] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: I was just interested to find out if we could kill it
[21:20:21] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: You could.
[21:20:22] --> looonger (n=looonger@host-89-231-128-7.rawamaz.mm.pl) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:20:43] <wired> tampakrap: have you done any changes to the eclasses since we lasted talked about them?
[21:20:46] <scarabeus> i agree with killing
[21:20:53] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: we should, but meh :\
[21:20:57] <yngwin> give peas a chance
[21:21:17] <tampakrap> wired: yes but not pushed
[21:21:17] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: I wouldn't do it anymore. It's not worth the effort anymore.
[21:21:24] <jmbsvicetto> yeah, I agree
[21:21:50] <scarabeus> it was allways broken from my POV and it is not worth the problems with it i guess
[21:21:57] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: how can we help you getting it done?
[21:22:02] <wired> tampakrap: ok, just asking because last time i used them [by accident] kdebluetooth failed to install
[21:22:23] <scarabeus> wired: most of the bugs i tried to fix
[21:22:24] <yngwin> kdebluetooth is problematic anyway
[21:22:30] <yngwin> should probab;ly be hardmasked
[21:22:30] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto: i'll ping you guys when i need help don't worry
[21:22:41] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: If you think the eclasses are "almost done", you should probably merge them to the master branch
[21:22:54] <wired> yngwin: it works fine for me (with bluez < 4)
[21:22:57] <tampakrap> yes i'm about to do it
[21:23:03] <jmbsvicetto> ok :)
[21:23:14] <scarabeus> ok
[21:23:31] --> scratch[x] (n=scratch@83.239.148.148) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:23:46] <tampakrap> but i  agree with Philantrop it is not worth the effort, everyone is moving to kde4.2, just a quick cleanup of kde3 is enough
[21:23:53] <scarabeus> yep
[21:23:59] <yngwin> on a related note, i want to mask ~qt-3.3.8 for removal, and leave only ~qt-3.3.8b in tree
[21:24:05] <tampakrap> and i am more intrested in kde4 too
[21:24:30] <alexxy> kde 3.5.x is old =)
[21:24:31] <tampakrap> yngwin: feel free
[21:24:31] <-- er0x (n=kvirc@client-87-247-122-156.inturbo.lt) has quit ("KVIrc Insomnia 4.0.0, revision: , sources date: 20090224, built on: 2009/03/04 18:54:25 UTC http://www.kvirc.net/")
[21:24:56] <yngwin> alexxy: maybe old, but it works ;)
[21:25:02] <scarabeus> :]
[21:25:04] <jmbsvicetto> yngwin: Is anything holding qt-3.3.8 around?
[21:25:13] <jmbsvicetto> yngwin: looking at keywords I see they're the same
[21:25:15] <yngwin> i thought kdebluetooth
[21:25:30] <tampakrap> ok about kdebluetooth
[21:25:31] <jmbsvicetto> ah, ok
[21:25:38] <yngwin> not 100% sure, will look tomorrow
[21:25:43] <bumbl> there might be some users who still want to use kde 3.5 until ~ kde 4.4 (which is when all the third party developers will have ported their apps (hopefully))
[21:25:51] <scarabeus> NOTE: (guys i found out that my loging is not working with this weechat version so i will write summary and somebody else will have to put the log on devspace)
[21:26:08] <jmbsvicetto> bumbl: hmm, besides k3b, which major apps are still missing?
[21:26:09] -*- wired keeps logs
[21:26:11] <tampakrap> bumbl: it's no reason to wait for them to release, we can provide working snapshots
[21:26:17] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto: nothing!
[21:26:20] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I have logs, don't worry
[21:26:23] <scarabeus> ouk
[21:26:40] <yngwin> jmbsvicetto: k3b, konversation, that i know
[21:26:46] <scarabeus> kile
[21:26:48] <scarabeus> and others
[21:26:51] <bumbl> jmbsvicetto: kaffeine4 is still very basic (kaffeinegl seems dead)
[21:26:53] <scarabeus> kde3 is still needed
[21:26:54] <yngwin> quanta!!!!!!!!!!
[21:26:56] <alexxy> kile works from :live
[21:27:07] <_genuser_> qt-core is almost done.
[21:27:08] <alexxy> k3b dont at this moment
[21:27:09] <scarabeus> live is not good for normal users :]
[21:27:13] <jmbsvicetto> yngwin: I liked quanta :)
[21:27:13] <tampakrap> ok about kdebluetooth i'll have a look at it and try to find the very best solution
[21:27:16] <_genuser_> then more hours for kdelibs.
[21:27:21] <Sho_> Konversation's KDE 4 port is shaping up nicely, so that will be gone from the list soon.
[21:27:27] <wired> jmbsvicetto: yeah quanta is badly missing
[21:27:35] <alexxy> we can make snapshots for kile
[21:27:36] <alexxy> =)
[21:27:43] <yngwin> jmbsvicetto: i was hoping for quanta with vimpart
[21:27:44] <scarabeus> blah
[21:27:47] <_genuser_> I'm so excited that in 2 days I can finally run kde4.2. :)
[21:28:06] <_genuser_> that was sarcastic.
[21:28:09] <bumbl> shouldn't kdevelop4 replace quanta?
[21:28:09] <_genuser_> hopefully it runs soon.
[21:28:10] <Bluespear> jmbsvicetto: Kile
[21:28:14] <tampakrap> we can make snapshots for many packages and maybe we can start doing it
[21:28:15] <scarabeus> tampakrap: do you need our help somewhere on kde3?
[21:28:30] <Bluespear> using TexClipse and this just sucks :D
[21:28:36] <tampakrap> scarabeus: not now maybe in a few days
[21:28:52] <jmbsvicetto> oh and obviously we still a "working" amarok ;)
[21:29:00] <bumbl> genady12_: ah that's why my sarcasm detector went wild
[21:29:16] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: next? getting 3.5.10 stabled?
[21:29:21] <tampakrap> people please we have a meeting here...
[21:29:26] <tampakrap> right
[21:29:29] <scarabeus> hehe lets wait what tampakrap shows us
[21:29:43] <scarabeus> for now lets fix the prefixing
[21:29:45] <scarabeus> :]
[21:29:51] <scarabeus> we still have  ~2 months :D
[21:30:06] <jmbsvicetto> For getting 3.5.10 marked as stable? :\
[21:30:08] <yngwin> why? there's no need to keep 3.5.10 from going stable
[21:30:12] <Sho_> scarabeus: remember my kepas thing *g*
[21:30:15] <jmbsvicetto> I was hoping to do it next month
[21:30:18] <tampakrap> as i said the main issue is running kde3 apps inside kde4 env that's where i need help and testing
[21:30:22] <yngwin> THIS month
[21:30:32] <jmbsvicetto> yngwin: :)
[21:30:33] <tampakrap> how can we do it this month with so many bugs open?
[21:30:36] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: for 4.2 starting its consideration :D
[21:30:48] <-- ABCD (n=ABCD@wikipedia/ABCD) has quit (Client Quit)
[21:31:03] <scarabeus> ok this leads to the virtualbox snapshots i talked about
[21:31:09] <yngwin> tampakrap: can you make a list of the important bugs that need fixing? so we can work on that, and ask users (bugday!) to help
[21:31:14] <scarabeus> we should create some generic gentoo instalation with kde3 and kde4 for testing
[21:31:17] <tampakrap> yes i can
[21:31:27] --> ABCD (n=ABCD@wikipedia/ABCD) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:31:28] <yngwin> that would be helpful
[21:31:37] <wired> scarabeus: Im on that
[21:31:51] <tampakrap> i should separate kde base bugs from the misc ones as a first step
[21:31:52] <jmbsvicetto> yngwin / tampakrap: I think the most imporant point to get 3.5.10 marked as stable is getting the eclasses in the tree
[21:31:56] <NoirSoldats> wired: How is that coming? Do you need my help?
[21:32:26] <jmbsvicetto> brb
[21:32:31] * tampakrap has changed topic for #gentoo-kde to: "MEETING NOW | Official gentoo-kde project channel | KDE 4 guide: http://tinyurl.com/4n47v4 | Overlays: kde-testing, qting-edge | Want to help us? Ask channel staff for info | Bugs: http://tinyurl.com/kdebugs1 http://xrl.us/qtbugs | Useful links: http://userbase.kde.org/ http://ktown.kde.org/~dirk/dashboard | KDE 4.2.1 is available | Weird issues with nvidia-drivers-180.35? bug 260441 | Qt 4.5.0 committed"
[21:32:34] <wired> NoirSoldats: well with 4.2.1 and all it kinda fell behind, but its cool, i figured out how to compact the thing as well so its more a matter of time now
[21:32:49] <tampakrap> i think we're done with kde3
[21:32:57] <scarabeus> if nobody has questions on ya
[21:33:08] <NoirSoldats> wired: I'm here if ya need me or my processors. :)
[21:33:31] <wired> alright, we'll talk about it after the meeting
[21:33:32] <tampakrap> oh the last i wanted to tell about kde3
[21:33:34] --> panard (n=panard@2a01:e35:8a09:e130:2e0:61ff:fe11:7adb) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:33:34] <comawhite> anyone ever noticed you can compile all of koffice-2 except Krita
[21:33:50] <scarabeus> comawhite: i know, not now, later i will talk with you
[21:34:04] <comawhite> okay
[21:34:23] <tampakrap> carlo is doing an excellent job with kde3 misc apps he closed many bugs but he is never on irc, has anyone contacted him ever?
[21:34:33] <bonsaikitten> only by email
[21:34:52] <yngwin> i gave up after he didnt answer my emails last year
[21:35:00] <tampakrap> ok i'll keep that in mind
[21:35:05] <-- Bluespear (n=speedy@dhcp-83-219-104-51.customers.tvtnet.ch) has quit ("Leave")
[21:35:06] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: You should use mail to talk to carlo
[21:35:07] <scarabeus> tampakrap: only by mail, or best is creating bug with high priority assigned to him
[21:35:11] <scarabeus> that is how i contacted :D
[21:35:22] <tampakrap> ok
[21:35:49] <scarabeus> ok next thingie is:
[21:35:55] <scarabeus> we need somebody maintain the amarok
[21:36:10] <yngwin> not me
[21:36:18] <alexxy> not me =)
[21:36:23] <NoirSoldats> hehe
[21:36:24] <scarabeus> is anyone from us willing to be official maintainer?
[21:36:25] <tampakrap> both kde3 and 4?
[21:36:29] <scarabeus> yeah both
[21:36:32] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I haven't looked at 5.1.72 yet (mysql), but I'll get back to it this week
[21:36:34] <tampakrap> omg
[21:36:37] --> eyal_ (n=eyal@IGLD-80-230-109-116.inter.net.il) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:36:51] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I don't think amarok for kde3 should require much work
[21:36:55] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: :P
[21:37:00] --> mschiff (n=mschiff@e176096142.adsl.alicedsl.de) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:37:05] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: well not much work but minor bugz are poping up
[21:37:06] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto: no it does :)
[21:37:10] <scarabeus> so polishing it needs
[21:37:17] <jmbsvicetto> :\
[21:37:25] <tampakrap> it is a mess, pretty abandoned
[21:37:42] <yngwin> yes, flameeyes tried to drop it on me
[21:37:44] <scarabeus> i guess we could sent mail on -dev
[21:37:48] <jmbsvicetto> amarok-1.4 ?
[21:37:54] <yngwin> indeed
[21:38:11] <yngwin> as i offered to help at the time when he had to go to hospital
[21:38:40] <scarabeus> hehe
[21:38:54] <yngwin> he assigned all amarok bugs to me
[21:38:55] <scarabeus> soo do we have suicider, erm i mean maintainer...
[21:38:59] <tampakrap> btw amarok-2.2 released
[21:39:04] <scarabeus> tampakrap: yeah i know
[21:39:20] <alexxy> tampakrap: what?!
[21:39:24] <scarabeus> 2.0.2
[21:39:28] <scarabeus> he cant write
[21:39:29] <scarabeus> :D
[21:39:32] <tampakrap> look i'm a big fun of amarok but until the end of the month i'll be pretty busy with some things and i can't take it
[21:39:43] <scarabeus> yes i know i am not saying you should
[21:39:45] <yngwin> we could just hardmask it and assign to maintainer-needed ;)
[21:39:58] <scarabeus> ok i will sent the mail on the dev you lazy ....
[21:40:00] <scarabeus> :D
[21:40:01] <hwoarang> i wonder if amarok compiles with qt-4.5 now
[21:40:11] <NoirSoldats> hwoarang: Mine did.
[21:40:19] <alexxy> hmm
[21:40:26] <hwoarang> so does here  but the upstream bug is still open
[21:40:27] <NoirSoldats> hwoarang: With a little hacking.
[21:40:31] <alexxy> we can add amarok 2.0.2 to overlay
[21:40:36] <hwoarang> and reproducable by many users
[21:40:36] <alexxy> to see if it works
[21:40:41] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: add me silently to the amarok bugs
[21:40:42] <hwoarang> +1 to alexxy
[21:41:01] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: ok adding as note if you are really sure :]
[21:41:09] <jmbsvicetto> yup
[21:41:16] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I'll take a look at it
[21:41:23] <tampakrap> will the kde-herd and sound-herd maintainers remain though?
[21:41:33] <scarabeus> yes of course :]
[21:41:41] <scarabeus> ok amarok is done i think :]
[21:41:56] <yngwin> i dont think anyone @sound is really interested
[21:42:16] <scarabeus> now i have "homepage updates" it means that we have pretty much tons of outdates info on webspace, in doc and in informations
[21:42:23] <tampakrap> i don't care for sound-herd after all :)
[21:42:28] <scarabeus> so we need somebody that will actualy try to keep that up-to-date
[21:42:39] -*- tampakrap 
[21:42:43] <yngwin> tampakrap: careful, i am in sound :p
[21:42:45] <tampakrap> next subject :)
[21:42:54] <tampakrap> :P
[21:43:08] <scarabeus> tampakrap: you will really keep the web updated? are you sure it is lots of pages and lots of stuff :]
[21:43:23] <scarabeus> specialy now main page and the guide needs heavy lifting
[21:43:29] <scarabeus> so do you have time?...
[21:43:33] <yngwin> i can help
[21:43:36] <tampakrap> look as i said until the end of a month i'll be pretty busy with some things, next i'll have too much free time
[21:43:49] <tampakrap> i'll take care of the guide though
[21:44:14] <scarabeus> ok you two, try to work it out somehow then :]
[21:44:30] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: ping
[21:44:33] <scarabeus> now i need you :]
[21:44:36] <bonsaikitten> what!
[21:44:39] <tampakrap> wait a minute
[21:44:46] <bonsaikitten> I'm just providing access to tarballs ;)
[21:45:02] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: nope, i need YOU to take look on pykde bugs, and actualy fix them
[21:45:10] <bonsaikitten> yeah
[21:45:11] <scarabeus> since you are most relevant for this
[21:45:14] <tampakrap> one quick note about the guide, people when you are fixing major stuff please do the guide fixes too immediately or assign it to someone, but it is a must
[21:45:23] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: I claim incompetence ;)
[21:45:32] <bonsaikitten> been quite busy with work, maybe I find some time during the weekend
[21:46:14] <scarabeus> greatie
[21:46:21] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: feel free to even remove it from kdeprefix
[21:46:32] <bonsaikitten> well, first gotta fix slotting
[21:46:37] <scarabeus> yup
[21:46:39] <bonsaikitten> then see why it randomly fails
[21:46:46] <bonsaikitten> then learn enough C++ to fix it
[21:46:50] <scarabeus> :D
[21:47:24] <scarabeus> there is nothing how i could help, combo of python and cpp is overhead for me
[21:47:25] <scarabeus> :]
[21:47:29] <bonsaikitten> hehe
[21:47:37] <bonsaikitten> I still have so many other bugs I want to take care of :(
[21:47:53] <yngwin> maybe mask pykde4 then
[21:47:59] <scarabeus> it will allways be that way, but this is one of the biggest kde4 stable blockers now
[21:48:54] <scarabeus> yngwin: even that might be the final solution if we wont make it work
[21:49:02] <scarabeus> althrought it would disable lots of plasmoids
[21:49:10] <bonsaikitten> no Final Solutions here
[21:49:20] <yngwin> now it just fails for too many ppl
[21:49:23] <bonsaikitten> we are pacifists who give every ebuild a chance
[21:49:34] <scarabeus> :D
[21:49:36] <jmbsvicetto> :)
[21:50:13] -*- bonsaikitten glares at Phil
[21:50:59] <scarabeus> any of you have any ideas about the bluez and kbluetooth, somebody who uses it, i might make it work, but frankly i dont use it much so i might missed stuff, it needs testing and maybe even patching
[21:51:03] <scarabeus> kbluetooth4
[21:51:56] <bonsaikitten> so let's ask users :)
[21:52:04] <scarabeus> bluez is hardmasked
[21:52:06] <bumbl> just compiled pykde4-9999 successfully
[21:52:07] <bonsaikitten>  I have no bluetooth equipment
[21:52:12] <scarabeus> so it needs really brave insaners to test
[21:52:25] -*- alexxy dont have bluetoth
[21:52:33] <wired> i have bluetooth but i stopped trying with kbluetooth4 some time ago because it broke my nerves
[21:52:36] <wired> i can test again
[21:52:45] --> himikof (n=himikof@129.167.249.ozerki.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:52:51] --> Varox (n=Varox@p4FD441A6.dip.t-dialin.net) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:53:04] <scarabeus> wired: ok
[21:53:08] <scarabeus> i will leave it up to you
[21:53:18] <bumbl> gnokii + bluez + kdebluetooth4 + /me = /me insane
[21:53:34] <wired> ok. i think i saw a patch for solid and bluez4 somewhere
[21:53:39] <-- Ghabit (n=quassel@91.149.157.195) has quit ("No Ping reply in 30 seconds.")
[21:53:41] <scarabeus> ok as sidenote and selfegomasturbation, this week i fixed KOFFICE and it works fine
[21:53:53] <scarabeus> so we are prepared to add it for the tree :]
[21:53:54] --> Ghabit (n=quassel@91.149.157.195) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:53:58] <tampakrap> i was about to ask it, what was the issue?
[21:54:00] <bonsaikitten> yey
[21:54:16] <scarabeus> i spent 6-7 hours on it
[21:54:21] -*- wired writes down todo notes ^_^
[21:54:29] <scarabeus> and developed nice cmake hate :D
[21:54:40] <tampakrap> ok well done
[21:54:58] --> bschindler|away (n=quassel@zux221-218-241.adsl.green.ch) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:55:17] <bonsaikitten> haha
[21:55:25] <bonsaikitten> build systems seem to be very good for hate
[21:55:30] <scarabeus> indeed
[21:55:39] <scarabeus> but still i like it more than scons and bam
[21:55:42] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: so you've finally learned to hate cmake? :P
[21:55:53] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: sorry for my disbelieve
[21:55:53] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: Are you feeling the love for autotools again? ;)
[21:55:57] <scarabeus> yes :D
[21:55:57] --> kostekjo (n=opera@chello084010120054.chello.pl) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:56:03] <scarabeus> cause autotools wont allow such messy code
[21:56:08] <-- Varox (n=Varox@p4FD441A6.dip.t-dialin.net) has quit (Remote closed the connection)
[21:56:08] <scarabeus> or i didnt see it anywhere
[21:56:17] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[21:56:28] <scarabeus> reavertm: pingping
[21:56:29] <alexxy> scarabeus: take a look @gromacs
[21:56:30] <alexxy> =)
[21:56:30] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: you should check kde autotools - it's also great ;)
[21:56:39] <scarabeus> :D
[21:56:39] <alexxy> to see autotools mess code
[21:56:47] <scarabeus> ok ok dont make me ruin my ideals
[21:56:52] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[21:56:59] <bonsaikitten> let's rewrite kde to use maven
[21:57:09] <bonsaikitten> that would be orgasmic
[21:57:14] <jmbsvicetto> bonsaikitten: let's use propper autotools :P
[21:57:25] <bonsaikitten> jmbsvicetto: that would have been my second-best suggestion :)
[21:57:46] <scarabeus> ok jmbsvicetto do you have some items that we need to squash for 4.2 stabling
[21:57:54] <scarabeus> currently we get hit by only minor stuff
[21:58:04] <scarabeus> so i am asking if you have something actualy major
[21:58:04] --> non7top (n=non7top@77.66.156.160) has joined #gentoo-kde
[21:58:11] <jmbsvicetto> we need to double check webkit, qt-phonon and java deps
[21:58:21] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: i already did webkit optional
[21:58:23] <jmbsvicetto> some arches don't support any or some of these
[21:58:41] <alexxy> mips dont have java
[21:58:50] <scarabeus> for that we have virtuoso i guess
[21:58:53] <alexxy> at least untill icedtea6 will hit tree
[21:58:54] <tampakrap> isn't the java issue fixed for soprano and such?
[21:58:56] <scarabeus> btw that package needs to be splitted
[21:58:58] <yngwin> which reminds me, can we make all deps in kde4-base.eclass optional?
[21:59:03] <scarabeus> cause it is 150mb big as one
[21:59:11] <scarabeus> yngwin: talk with me later about it
[21:59:15] <yngwin> ok
[21:59:16] <scarabeus> i am open for suggestions
[21:59:56] <-- S-man (n=quassel@cc84863-b.zwoll1.ov.home.nl) has quit (Remote closed the connection)
[22:00:09] <tampakrap> i'll repeat, isn't the java issue fixed?
[22:00:18] <alexxy> tampakrap: seems yes
[22:00:34] <alexxy> at least i have sane deps tree on mips
[22:00:38] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap / alexxy: Have you talked to ali_bush about that?
[22:00:49] <wired> i talked with ali_bush
[22:00:51] <jmbsvicetto> He was reporting an issue with gen1 jvms
[22:01:05] <wired> he said he'll look into it tomorrow
[22:01:14] --> S-man (n=quassel@cc84863-b.zwoll1.ov.home.nl) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:01:41] <scarabeus> great :]
[22:01:43] <bumbl> virtuoso does need ~15mb (the parts kde actually uses)
[22:02:18] <scarabeus> yes but the rest is 10x bigger that is why i said that we should split it
[22:02:27] <reavertm> (apparently)
[22:02:54] <yngwin> (qt-)phonon is not supported/keyworded on alpha, ia64, mips, sparc and x86-fbsd
[22:02:55] <bumbl> yep
[22:03:12] <reavertm> stil the idea of splitting proposed by trueg is rather silly? (virtuoso-data, virtuoso-backends? it's database server :P)
[22:03:17] <alexxy> yngwin: i'll keyword phonon on mips
[22:03:22] <yngwin> ok
[22:03:31] <hwoarang> alexxy: please keyword qt-demo as well
[22:03:32] <jmbsvicetto> webkit seems to have problems at least in big endian arches
[22:03:39] <alexxy> hwoarang: later
[22:03:44] <hwoarang> yes
[22:03:44] <alexxy> only after kde =)
[22:03:52] <reavertm> btw, there is probably no more separate phonon release
[22:04:03] <alexxy> jmbsvicetto: my mips is bigendian
[22:04:27] <bumbl> USE-flags if possible
[22:05:00] <jmbsvicetto> alexxy: at least for sparc and I think ppc64 webkit has alignment issues
[22:05:41] -*- alexxy thinks that we should have abi and endianes keywords for packages
[22:05:47] <yngwin> only sparc
[22:05:58] <yngwin> ppc64 does have qt-webkit keyworded
[22:06:29] <yngwin> alpha and ia64 dont
[22:07:33] <wired> on the soprano[sesame2] java issue, it seems sesame doesn't like sun-jre-bin
[22:08:15] <scarabeus> ok lads
[22:08:16] <tampakrap> isn't this fixed?
[22:08:31] <scarabeus> i will take care of easying the deps in eclass and you take care about keywording and deps :]
[22:09:22] <reavertm> wired to build? of it doesn't like switching between sun-jdk and sun-jre-bin after it was succesfully built
[22:09:54] --> Zucca (i=zucca@a88-112-55-25.elisa-laajakaista.fi) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:09:54] <wired> reavertm: when i was testing it it would skip sesame2 support if sun-jre-bin was set as system-vm
[22:10:05] <scarabeus> build fail
[22:10:14] <scarabeus> it need somebody from java to look and investigate
[22:10:22] <wired> there's also another issue with sesame
[22:10:34] <-- bschindler (n=quassel@zux221-218-241.adsl.green.ch) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[22:10:37] <wired> if you run emerge with sudo
[22:10:41] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I've heard of cmake not finding java
[22:10:44] <wired> it skips sesame support
[22:10:56] <wired> i talked to ali_bush about it and he said he'll look into it
[22:10:56] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: it find it
[22:11:00] <scarabeus> but marks as not sufficient
[22:11:04] <scarabeus> i did bit investigation
[22:11:13] <reavertm> you can't build it with sun-jre and no wonder - it needs jdk - that's first
[22:11:44] <reavertm> second is - cmake FindJNI doesn't support many jdk's (IBM to mention one)
[22:11:53] <wired> sounds reasonable, but no checks are done for it
[22:11:59] <reavertm> (I have even some patch for that module somewhere)
[22:12:08] <scarabeus> then give it upstream
[22:13:52] <scarabeus> ok now we are getting to the fancy stuff
[22:13:54] <-- kostekjo (n=opera@chello084010120054.chello.pl) has left #gentoo-kde
[22:14:01] <scarabeus> reavertm: how is looking the cmake stuff you are working on
[22:14:11] <scarabeus> now the eclass in the testing is working right, can we make it more gentooish
[22:14:17] <scarabeus> or it is not worth efforts?
[22:14:32] <hwoarang> gentooish?
[22:14:34] <hwoarang> :D
[22:14:40] <tampakrap> scarabeus: could you please expand? i have no idea what you are talking about
[22:14:57] <reavertm> it's done, testing (rebuilding with kde now)
[22:14:58] <scarabeus> tampakrap: obeying our variables and so on
[22:15:05] <scarabeus> i tested too
[22:15:08] <scarabeus> this afternoon
[22:15:10] <scarabeus> works fine
[22:15:16] <reavertm> it's about preserving gentoo C(XX)?_FLAGS and such
[22:15:32] --> Zuccace_ (i=zucca@a88-112-55-25.elisa-laajakaista.fi) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:15:35] <hwoarang> goodie
[22:15:43] <scarabeus> reavertm: ok so lets say we have this as final agreed?
[22:15:50] <scarabeus> no more major updates :]
[22:16:01] <reavertm> scarabeus you tested it with obsolete cmake-utils and I already fund some user of forum (or here) complainging at /usr/local and claimig that he sysnced overlay recently
[22:16:13] <scarabeus> he is lying
[22:16:14] <d00p> g
[22:16:16] <scarabeus> it is working
[22:16:17] <d00p> ups :p
[22:16:23] <scarabeus> tested on tons of cmake-utils ebuilds
[22:16:29] <wired> i have some stuff in /usr/local too
[22:16:36] <scarabeus> wired: then try the stuff recompile
[22:16:48] <wired> kk
[22:16:57] <wired> its just soprano, i'll do it now
[22:17:17] <reavertm> no, it's cmake issue, not soprano issue
[22:17:22] <wired> i mean
[22:17:25] <wired> its soprano files
[22:17:26] <wired> in there
[22:17:27] <wired> :)
[22:17:31] <scarabeus> yes it is cmake-eclass isue
[22:17:34] <scarabeus> so sync and try plz
[22:17:39] <wired> on it
[22:17:40] <scarabeus> so we can have it from the first hand
[22:18:09] <-- yngwin (n=yngwin@gentoo/developer/yngwin) has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
[22:18:19] <scarabeus> meanwhile we removed htmlhandbook useflag so we have to create new generation for the docs :]
[22:18:31] --> yngwin_ (n=yngwin@gentoo/developer/yngwin) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:18:31] *** Mode #gentoo-kde +o yngwin_ by ChanServ
[22:18:40] <scarabeus> it is not biggie but it would be nice to have some reasonable doc system instead of broken htmlhandbook for 4.2.2
[22:18:53] <tampakrap> any ideas on this?
[22:18:57] <reavertm> doc USE flag?
[22:19:19] <scarabeus> reavertm: hehehe
[22:19:21] <yngwin_> sry, lost network
[22:19:21] <tampakrap> i like this
[22:19:27] <scarabeus> it was wrong
[22:19:28] <reavertm> and what then - extracyting /doc when set?
[22:19:48] <scarabeus> yup but wont be smart to have kde-docs package
[22:19:52] <scarabeus> easier and convinient
[22:20:47] -*- NoirSoldats seconds the idea of a kde-docs package.
[22:21:08] <-> yngwin_ is now known as yngwin
[22:21:22] <jmbsvicetto> why kde-docs?
[22:21:25] <reavertm> so... gather docs from all kde-base modules?
[22:21:35] <scarabeus> yup
[22:21:36] <jmbsvicetto> If I only install 3 or 4 apps, why should I have the docs for all of KDE?
[22:21:42] <-- looonger (n=looonger@host-89-231-128-7.rawamaz.mm.pl) has quit (Client Quit)
[22:21:43] --> ayevee (n=quassel@62.140.238.1) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:21:53] -*- reavertm agrees with jmbsvicetto :P
[22:21:54] <scarabeus> ok so useflag you say
[22:21:55] <scarabeus> ok
[22:21:57] <scarabeus> :(
[22:22:04] <scarabeus> my nice idea squashed to the dust :D
[22:22:04] <NoirSoldats> jmbsvicetto: How big would the docs really be though? In total?
[22:22:10] <scarabeus> quite much
[22:22:17] <reavertm> I mean, it's easier to maintain it at package level
[22:22:28] <NoirSoldats> <100MB?
[22:23:04] <ayevee> am I the only one for whom automo-9999 fails to build?
[22:23:46] <wired> scarabeus: synced, emerge -av1 soprano but the files still installed in /usr/local
[22:23:48] <NoirSoldats> scarabeus: Hmm, I have a suggestion for how to handle the docs, that should solve both ends of the spectrum.. if I may.
[22:23:57] <hwoarang> ayevee: not now. we are in the middle of a meeting
[22:24:08] <ayevee> hwoarang: sorry
[22:24:19] <-- ayevee (n=quassel@62.140.238.1) has quit (Client Quit)
[22:24:22] <hwoarang> np
[22:24:34] <bumbl> scarabeus: why was htmlhandbook wrong?
[22:24:59] <reavertm> htmlhandbook is installing *unpacked* docs
[22:25:19] <bumbl> ah ok
[22:25:20] <reavertm> sth like difference between .chm and  unpacked help contents
[22:25:36] <bumbl> (i have no problem with that but i see the point)
[22:27:06] <jmbsvicetto> are we still in point 3 ? :\
[22:27:27] <scarabeus> :D
[22:27:33] <scarabeus> we have 3 issues left
[22:27:39] <jmbsvicetto> I see we'e jumped ab it
[22:27:39] <scarabeus> i pick randomly :D
[22:27:42] <jmbsvicetto> a bit*
[22:27:48] <-- Zucca (i=zucca@a88-112-55-25.elisa-laajakaista.fi) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[22:27:54] <jmbsvicetto> 4, 5 and 6 ?
[22:27:59] <scarabeus> ok reavertm we will probably work on this
[22:28:12] <scarabeus> those are due to now
[22:28:19] <wired> scarabeus: ^^ soprano still installs in /usr/local
[22:28:22] <scarabeus> now lets talk about the splitting then
[22:28:27] <scarabeus> wired: ok i will owrk on that
[22:28:32] <wired> ok :)
[22:28:55] <scarabeus> reavertm: do you know how is upstream going with its splitting for 4.3?
[22:29:22] --> mikkoc_ (n=mikko@151.59.215.164) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:29:57] <tampakrap> upstream is going to split modules or to support splited builds?
[22:29:58] <-- scratch[x] (n=scratch@83.239.148.148) has quit ("Ухожу")
[22:30:10] <tampakrap> or something else?
[22:30:32] <reavertm> related to binary/lib versioning? well, they don't seem to be eager (see the need - talked with dfaure ) to change .so version to make it possible to install multiple installations aside
[22:30:51] <reavertm> I wonder who came up with the idea (maybe I don't have clear picture)
[22:31:05] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: you are most relevant for this ideas
[22:31:24] <jmbsvicetto> ok
[22:32:19] <jmbsvicetto> Our talk at FOSDEM was that they would (could?) probably split all the bins, but there were some resistance to lbis
[22:32:22] <jmbsvicetto> libs*
[22:32:45] <jkt|> is that about keeping 4.x and 4.(x+1) aside?
[22:33:13] <scarabeus> jkt|: yes and in same prefix
[22:33:49] <reavertm> anyway - providing more restictive .so versions would restict their ABI compatibility - they already increase soversion for newer libs
[22:34:02] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: that's the next step
[22:34:13] -*- Sput thinks it does not make much sense to split libs that are always needed anyway
[22:34:37] <reavertm> so we would need either dependencies on *every*library* level (and not tied to particular kde version) or just override their choice on our side
[22:34:43] <jmbsvicetto> The first step from them was splitting the tarballs. The second step is providing support to have multiple versions around
[22:34:53] <jmbsvicetto> Sput: I tend to agree
[22:35:17] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: libtool!!! ;)
[22:35:26] <-- anselmolsm (n=anselmo@200.184.118.130) has quit (Read error: 113 (No route to host))
[22:35:40] <scarabeus> hh
[22:35:45] <-- Zuccace_ (i=zucca@a88-112-55-25.elisa-laajakaista.fi) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[22:35:58] <reavertm> I don't know libtool and I'm not eager to learn it (libtool is broken as well, besides :P)
[22:36:36] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: I mean that this issue of lib versions and deps is what libtool does
[22:37:02] <reavertm> setting versions for kde libs is not a problem
[22:38:09] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: I mean run-time deps
[22:38:32] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: Having app A with a rdep on lib X-1.0.1 and not lib X-1.0.2
[22:38:41] <-- Sho_ (n=EHS1@kde/hein) has quit (Read error: 104 (Connection reset by peer))
[22:39:28] --> anselmolsm (n=anselmo@200.184.118.130) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:39:30] <jmbsvicetto> So, who's interested in this subject?
[22:39:56] <scarabeus> i am not enought l33t for this one
[22:40:00] --> kostekjo (n=opera@chello084010120054.chello.pl) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:40:32] <reavertm> neither am I
[22:40:37] <-- kostekjo (n=opera@chello084010120054.chello.pl) has left #gentoo-kde
[22:41:09] <jmbsvicetto> I don't believe you :P
[22:42:06] --> root (n=root@hor-jdh171.hor.ucl.ac.uk) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:42:14] <jmbsvicetto> ok, I guess we should talk about this later. Let's see if we can get anything in the ml
[22:42:15] <-> root is now known as lfranchi
[22:42:26] <jmbsvicetto> Are you guys still awake? ;)
[22:42:36] <-- lfranchi (n=root@hor-jdh171.hor.ucl.ac.uk) has quit (Client Quit)
[22:42:37] <scarabeus> yep
[22:42:39] <scarabeus> i am trying
[22:42:42] <scarabeus> ook
[22:42:43] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[22:42:48] <tampakrap> yeah i just woke up at 19:00 utc
[22:42:48] <scarabeus> next thing
[22:42:50] <scarabeus> importand one
[22:42:51] --> rex_ (n=quassel@host135-243-dynamic.4-87-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:42:54] <scarabeus> snapshots
[22:42:57] <scarabeus> what should we do
[22:43:04] <scarabeus> upstream dont give a f**k
[22:43:07] <tampakrap> stop providing them i guess
[22:43:23] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: I'll try to mail Dirk directly
[22:43:34] <reavertm> I don't feel like it's worth repacking
[22:43:39] <tampakrap> Dirk is the packager?
[22:43:40] <jmbsvicetto> last time it took him a few months to get back, but I won't lose anything by sending the mail
[22:43:43] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: ping
[22:43:44] <scarabeus> it is getting high priority cause pple liek the feature
[22:43:49] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: I can script fixed ones
[22:43:56] <reavertm> Dirk Mueller is "release-team" :P
[22:44:04] <-- Civil (n=Civilian@95-24-48-161.broadband.corbina.ru) has quit (Remote closed the connection)
[22:44:05] <bonsaikitten> scarabeus: that way we'd use our own mirroring
[22:44:06] <reavertm> that's why we can't get any feedback :P
[22:44:22] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: Hm?
[22:44:25] --> leo (n=leo@hor-jdh171.hor.ucl.ac.uk) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:44:26] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: he's on the packagers and release ml
[22:44:33] <-> leo is now known as lfranchi
[22:44:40] <alexxy> we can repack this tarbolls
[22:44:55] <reavertm> yes, but he's de facto only man reposnible for releases and tarballs
[22:44:56] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: Have you tried to get someone from KDE about the snapshots names?
[22:45:09] <lfranchi> yo Sput
[22:45:11] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: By you, I mean you, Ingmar or someone else from exherbo
[22:45:22] <lfranchi> Sput: i get to complain at you now :)
[22:45:33] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: Nope, we decided we don't care enough. :)
[22:45:38] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[22:45:42] <tampakrap> that's the spirit
[22:45:42] <jmbsvicetto> Philantrop: slacker :P
[22:45:44] <scarabeus> hehe
[22:45:49] <scarabeus> that is the point we are getting now :D
[22:46:10] <reavertm> actually we have similar approach I guess :)
[22:46:12] <Philantrop> jmbsvicetto: "[05. 03. 2009 21:29] <Ingmar> slacker! :p" <-- to me. :->
[22:46:24] <scarabeus> lol
[22:46:25] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[22:47:00] <jmbsvicetto> I'll provide some feedback to the ml when / if I get something
[22:47:03] <-- mikkoc (n=mikko@151.59.212.173) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[22:47:04] <-- pipipde (n=pip@e179244051.adsl.alicedsl.de) has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
[22:47:08] <alexxy> we still need tarbolls for snapshots
[22:47:12] <tampakrap> what's the backup plan then?
[22:47:15] <scarabeus> ok lets state we sent hte mail
[22:47:22] <scarabeus> and bonsaikitten will repack for time being
[22:47:26] <jmbsvicetto> I'm going to send another mail today
[22:47:34] <scarabeus> ok you sent the mail
[22:47:42] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto: maybe CC to many KDE people and mls
[22:47:59] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: I'm going to address the packagers, the release team and Dirk directly
[22:48:01] <lfranchi> so i'm just getting started with kde-svn ebuilds on gentoo, and automoc failed to install (failed to even begin checking out from svn). can anyone in here help me?
[22:48:09] --> pipipde (n=pip@e179247082.adsl.alicedsl.de) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:48:25] <alexxy> lfranchi: later1 we have meeting there
[22:48:31] <lfranchi> oh, sorry
[22:48:36] -*- lfranchi hides
[22:48:59] <reavertm> lfranchi: I guess it will be fixed soon, but will, many people use live kde (didn't have time to look up the issue)
[22:49:12] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: so you can rly pack it with not big effort?
[22:49:42] <alexxy> scarabeus: we can repack them as tar.lzma
[22:49:43] <alexxy> =)
[22:49:47] <scarabeus> sweeet
[22:49:50] <alexxy> via scripts
[22:49:54] -*- jmbsvicetto kills alexxy 
[22:49:58] <jmbsvicetto> tar.bz2 :P
[22:50:08] <alexxy> jmbsvicetto: .lzma better =)
[22:50:12] <wired> well since they really want their svn in the filename, maybe we can convince them to use a 4.x.SVNREV.tar.bz2 scheme?
[22:50:26] <scarabeus> wired: well the svnrev is not deterministic
[22:50:31] <reavertm> jmbsvicetto: if you mailed Dirk, you would be mentining placing .svnrevision file or sth in tarball?
[22:50:31] <scarabeus> you have to go and check for that revnumber
[22:50:40] <scarabeus> normaly you just add +1
[22:50:56] <reavertm> as I guess it's at least the way we agreed with thiago
[22:50:56] <wired> i see
[22:51:08] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: I can suggest that as an alternative
[22:51:15] <wired> well i don't see them changing their minds any time soon, alexxy's log was pretty clear
[22:51:38] <reavertm> jmbsvicetto: I mean, let him know we already discussed it with kde folks :P
[22:52:09] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: I will also ask for different options if they don't want weekly snapshots to be used by packagers
[22:52:21] <reavertm> wired: well, you may read jmbsvicetto log as well (later that day)
[22:52:57] <reavertm> if they don't want us to use - I think we should not use :P we just need to follow trunk changes then :P
[22:53:31] <reavertm> It's sufficient to prepare next stable (4.3) release
[22:53:34] --> Linux (n=marcus@92-234-252-159.cable.ubr06.blac.blueyonder.co.uk) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:53:41] <Linux> Hey everyone.
[22:53:49] <reavertm> besides - people should use portage version :P
[22:53:58] <jmbsvicetto> hehe
[22:53:59] <Linux> Is KDE 4.2.1 available yet? I synced yesterday.
[22:54:09] <NoirSoldats> Linux: Yes.
[22:54:11] <yngwin> yes, sync again
[22:54:16] <reavertm> so not making snapshots available we probably have greater 4.2 userbase to test and possibly stabilize later
[22:54:19] <Linux> OK. :)
[22:54:53] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: the snapshots are useful, imo
[22:55:10] <reavertm> as unstable snaphosts are not really *releases* but just svn dump - they are usually as broken as live
[22:55:16] <tampakrap> i agree with reavertm, live is enough, we already maintain too many kde releases
[22:55:22] -*- alexxy starts repacking kde 4.2.65
[22:55:29] <scarabeus> :D
[22:55:34] <scarabeus> alexxy: talk with kitten
[22:55:42] <jmbsvicetto> ok, if no one is willing to work on them for now, let them rest
[22:55:49] <scarabeus> ook
[22:55:50] <scarabeus> agreed
[22:55:54] <jmbsvicetto> We have enough things to take are already
[22:56:18] <jmbsvicetto> scarabeus: bugs? bugz? BUGZ??? ;)
[22:56:19] <scarabeus> last thing
[22:56:24] <scarabeus> BUGZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
[22:56:30] <jmbsvicetto> :)
[22:56:30] <scarabeus> we have tons of them
[22:56:31] <yngwin> zzzzzzzzzz
[22:56:31] <scarabeus> many dupes
[22:56:34] <scarabeus> many needs fix
[22:56:37] <scarabeus> many are trivial
[22:56:40] <jmbsvicetto> yngwin: :)
[22:56:44] <scarabeus> and there is sh*tload of them
[22:57:01] <tampakrap> nice, i was eating
[22:57:14] <reavertm> don't read then ;)
[22:57:15] <scarabeus> good now you will starve as me :D
[22:57:22] <wired> hahahahahah
[22:57:23] -*- Sput looks into automoc now
[22:57:37] <Sput> except somebody fixed that already
[22:57:43] <reavertm> Sput it may be as well cmake-utils related
[22:58:01] <tampakrap> scarabeus: tell us the last issue and go to watch some pr0n
[22:58:06] <scarabeus> :D
[22:58:12] <scarabeus> the issue is we need to work on bugz
[22:58:24] <Sput> tampakrap: you didn't watch pr0n during the meeting like the rest of us?
[22:58:25] <scarabeus> we need smebody actualy devolting lots of time on them
[22:58:44] <tampakrap> we need a cleanup as a first step
[22:58:44] <jmbsvicetto> Should we set some goals about bugs?
[22:58:53] <scarabeus> yep that might be good
[22:58:57] -*- reavertm still has some updates 4.2.1 and wonders whether anyone wants them, especially with 4.2.1 removed from overlay :P
[22:58:59] <tampakrap> take care of trackers, duplicates and resolved
[22:59:01] <tampakrap> and then fixed
[22:59:15] <jmbsvicetto> Do we want to reduce them to a certain number by X months? Do we want to set a goal of taking care of X bugs per week?
[22:59:15] <scarabeus> reavertm: pastebin it :]
[22:59:18] <tampakrap> i'm sure 100 of them are already fixed or duplicate
[22:59:33] <hwoarang> yes
[22:59:36] <hwoarang> or invalid
[22:59:36] <tampakrap> jmbsvicetto: you are the leader, you should set the number
[22:59:51] --> cypr1nus (n=cypr1nus@plus.ds14.agh.edu.pl) has joined #gentoo-kde
[22:59:57] <reavertm> scarabeus: when I'm done rebuilding kde with them (along with cmake-utils and those pasted kde4 eclass thing - so far so good)
[23:00:12] <scarabeus> actualy we can have policy like "you want to be in herd fix X bugz a month"
[23:00:14] <scarabeus> :D
[23:00:19] <scarabeus> or some other contribution to kde
[23:00:51] <tampakrap> i'm ok will all these, just give us the deadlines
[23:00:51] <alexxy> heh =)
[23:01:07] <jmbsvicetto> OK. Let's have a vote: get bugs under X or fix X bugs per week?
[23:01:25] <tampakrap> the second
[23:01:27] <bonsaikitten> yes!
[23:01:38] <scarabeus> the second is more reasonable :]
[23:01:38] <reavertm> define "fix"
[23:01:40] <jmbsvicetto> I think the later might be more productive and may help feeling work done
[23:01:43] -*- bonsaikitten self-removes from the herd preemptively
[23:01:44] <hwoarang> +1
[23:01:53] <jmbsvicetto> bonsaikitten: hehe
[23:01:56] <tampakrap> hhahahahahha
[23:02:06] <scarabeus> bonsaikitten: we can give you expection for the kittening :D
[23:02:08] <reavertm> marking as RESOLVED/FIXED only to decrease bug count is wrong approach  - I'd agree with flameeyes here :P
[23:02:22] <scarabeus> well it has to be fixed too
[23:02:30] <jmbsvicetto> I'm not going to create a rule "if you don't fix X bugs per week, you're out", but I think we should all try to solve at least X bugs per week
[23:02:34] <bonsaikitten> haha
[23:02:37] <yngwin> well, for starters it would probably help to weed out the duplicates
[23:02:41] <bonsaikitten> well, I'm fixing too many other things
[23:02:41] <jmbsvicetto> reavertm: sure
[23:03:10] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: btw did you sent the mail about removing of members to nonactive kde members?
[23:03:15] <jmbsvicetto> So, a reasonable number would be between 2 and 10?
[23:03:35] <tampakrap> 4-10
[23:03:57] <jmbsvicetto> 5 per week?
[23:03:58] <scarabeus> a week
[23:04:00] <scarabeus> 5
[23:04:17] <scarabeus> but actualy we are fixing even more :P
[23:04:21] <scarabeus> i have 5 for today :D
[23:04:27] <scarabeus> more than 5
[23:04:28] <d00p> lol
[23:04:29] <scarabeus> :D
[23:04:33] <dagger> ;)
[23:04:35] <tampakrap> 10?
[23:04:39] <d00p> 7?
[23:04:41] <scarabeus> tampakrap: that is hard to tell
[23:04:46] <jmbsvicetto> Ok, let's all try to fix at least 5 bugs per week
[23:04:48] <scarabeus> bug a day might be good idea
[23:04:51] <scarabeus> ook
[23:04:57] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: Let's not aim too high
[23:04:59] <scarabeus> at least 5 bugs per week
[23:05:14] <-- Caster (i=Caster@gentoo/developer/caster) has quit ("Don't waste your time, or time will waste you.")
[23:05:15] <tampakrap> fine
[23:05:19] <jmbsvicetto> tampakrap: You're feel to fix 50 in a week if you can ;)
[23:05:27] <tampakrap> oh i am?
[23:05:34] <jmbsvicetto> yes :P
[23:05:41] <tampakrap> ok now we are clear
[23:05:42] <jmbsvicetto> bah, You're free*
[23:05:44] <bumbl> a bug a day keeps the doctor away
[23:05:53] <tampakrap> hahahhaaha
[23:06:05] <scarabeus> bumbl: nice moto
[23:06:07] <tampakrap> a bug per day keeps the ladys away
[23:06:12] <scarabeus> rofl
[23:06:13] <d00p> lawl
[23:06:17] <dagger> hehe
[23:06:20] <bumbl> lol
[23:06:28] <scarabeus> dagger: you wanna help with bugz?
[23:06:28] <jmbsvicetto> I suggest we had bumbl moto to our page ;)
[23:06:32] <d00p> do you rly want that to happen?
[23:06:32] <dagger> tampakrap: 10 bugs a day keep your life away :p
[23:06:35] <dagger> scarabeus: sure
[23:06:37] <scarabeus> jmbsvicetto: agreed
[23:06:56] <jmbsvicetto> So, anything else?
[23:07:01] <scarabeus> we are done
[23:07:03] <scarabeus> dismissed
