Gentoo Qt project meeting 2013-06-02
Timestamps are UTC+4

[12:01:18] *	yngwin present
[12:01:39] <Pinkbyte>	i am in too, obviously :-)
[12:01:59] <Pinkbyte>	hm. Only two members? :/
[12:02:35] <yngwin>	wired said he would try to be here
[12:04:45] <Pinkbyte>	Ok, let's start, maybe he will join us later
[12:06:32] <Pinkbyte>	Here we go: Qt5 questions. What's happened with qt5 use flag? Was it added to gentoo-x86?
[12:06:43] <yngwin>	yes it was
[12:07:12] <yngwin>	 % grep qt5 /usr/portage/profiles/use.desc 
[12:07:12] <yngwin>	qt5 - Adds support for the Qt 5 application and UI framework
[12:07:38] <yngwin>	and i just committed new cantata ebuild with qt5 useflag
[12:08:02] <dilfridge>	since I'm around... how to you plan to handle qt4 vs qt5 vs qt useflag? (compare gtk / gtk2 gtk3)
[12:08:32] <yngwin>	no qt useflag
[12:08:43] <Pinkbyte>	dilfridge, we do not use qt USE-flag long time
[12:08:49] <yngwin>	this has been decided a long time ago
[12:08:50] <dilfridge>	ok
[12:08:59] <dilfridge>	just asking
[12:09:09] <Pinkbyte>	iirc, we migrate from qt USE-flag to qt4 when Qt3 was gone from tree
[12:09:13] <Pinkbyte>	or even earlier
[12:09:14] <yngwin>	fair enough, i guess we could post a reminder on dev ml
[12:11:04] <Pinkbyte>	ok, let's move on
[12:11:21] <Pinkbyte>	splitting Qt ebuilds
[12:11:50] <Pinkbyte>	pesa was in charge of that, iirc, but he is missing :-/
[12:12:12] <yngwin>	well, this is really pesa's project, but he could use some help
[12:14:53] <Pinkbyte>	i saw splitted live ebuilds in qt overlay. What we should decide about them? Can we make non-live versions and put them to gentoo-x86? And if yes, then: unstable or masked?
[12:16:22] <yngwin>	as soon as the live ones are done, we could do them for release versions
[12:16:44] <yngwin>	test in overlay, if they're good, they can go straight to ~arch
[12:17:25] <yngwin>	i don't see the problem, except it needs some manpower to actually do the work
[12:17:58] <Pinkbyte>	yngwin, so, we aware of dependency breakages in ~arch and it's not a very big deal, huh?
[12:18:20] <yngwin>	that's why you develop in overlay first, then do a tinderbox run
[12:20:33] <Pinkbyte>	ok
[12:20:57] <Pinkbyte>	about split progress of other parts... well, it seems we need pesa's opinion here too  :-/
[12:22:11] <yngwin>	afaik pesa and kensington are the only ones doing work on this
[12:24:16] <Pinkbyte>	And they are both away :-(. Probably i should make a poll about time of next meeting. Meeting, where more than half of a team is missing, is not-so-productive :-/
[12:26:02] <yngwin>	indeed
[12:26:44] <Pinkbyte>	anyway, let's move on. Remaining TODO items from last time:
[12:27:00] <Pinkbyte>	Bug 465874
[12:27:01] <willikins>	Pinkbyte: https://bugs.gentoo.org/465874 "[qt overlay] app-text/goldendict-9999 - processwrapper.cc:99:19: error: 'getpid' was not declared in this scope"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; UNCO; cornicx:qt
[12:29:01] <yngwin>	Nikoli is proxy maintainer, why hasn't he committed this? 
[12:29:56] <Pinkbyte>	yngwin, did he have access to qt overlay? In overlay metadata poinst only on qt team
[12:30:10] <Pinkbyte>	s/poinst/points/
[12:30:15] <yngwin>	not sure
[12:31:16] <Pinkbyte>	ok, i will handle this
[12:31:29] <Pinkbyte>	next one: bug 464690
[12:31:33] <willikins>	Pinkbyte: https://bugs.gentoo.org/464690 "=net-im/qutim-0.3.1 fails to connect"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; CONF; ago:qt
[12:33:39] <yngwin>	I've never touched that package, so I don't really have an idea
[12:35:35] <Pinkbyte>	tbh, i have not tried to reproduce this. I use qutim on regular basis, but only as ICQ client
[12:36:36] <Pinkbyte>	ok, last one from this section: moving wiki pages from gitorious to wiki.gentoo.org
[12:37:30] <yngwin>	just needs someone with some time
[12:38:28] <Pinkbyte>	...and access to gitorious repo. For example, i have no access there :-)
[12:38:41] <yngwin>	ah
[12:38:47] <yngwin>	well that can be fixed
[12:39:02] <yngwin>	but we just need to copy over the content
[12:39:19] <yngwin>	then someone with access can remove the repo
[12:39:56] <yngwin>	maybe i can dump the content on the wiki, then anyone can wikify it properly later
[12:40:15] <Pinkbyte>	ah yes, you are right
[12:40:39] <yngwin>	i dont know if there is a markdown to mediawiki convertor
[12:41:33] <Pinkbyte>	yngwin, http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/try/
[12:41:48] <Pinkbyte>	it seems that this thing can do the trick ;-)
[12:41:51] <yngwin>	pandoc, figures
[12:42:31] <Pinkbyte>	yngwin, so, will you try to do this?
[12:42:43] <yngwin>	"Please limit input to 1000 characters or less."
[12:42:54] <yngwin>	yeah i will have a try, if i can do this today
[12:43:08] <Pinkbyte>	such limit is a crap :-/
[12:43:11] <Pinkbyte>	ok
[12:43:20] <yngwin>	but yes, that seems to work
[12:44:19] <yngwin>	i would install pandoc locally, but it requires a shitload of haskell deps
[12:44:22] <yngwin>	Total: 43 packages (43 new), Size of downloads: 204,337 kB
[12:45:47] <Pinkbyte>	ok. The last one question - qt5.eclass, bug 467712
[12:45:48] <willikins>	Pinkbyte: https://bugs.gentoo.org/467712 "[qt overlay] qt5.eclass addition request"; Gentoo Linux, Eclasses and Profiles; RESO, FIXE; david.heidelberger:qt
[12:46:20] <Pinkbyte>	it's marked fixed and it seems that we decided to use current variant as start point
[12:47:05] <yngwin>	there is a qmake-utils eclass in the overlay
[12:48:40] <yngwin>	so that's the way that was chosen
[12:49:15] <yngwin>	so that's option 3 or 4 on the agenda
[12:49:35] <yngwin>	i guess 4, for the time being
[12:49:59] <Pinkbyte>	seems partially done 4 variant for me
[12:50:43] <yngwin>	how partially?
[12:51:59] <yngwin>	what still needs to be done?
[12:52:10] <Pinkbyte>	yngwin, hm, yeah, i forgot what multilib-minimal does
[12:52:43] <Pinkbyte>	then - it is done
[12:52:49] <yngwin>	it's in the official tree
[12:53:38] <Pinkbyte>	ok, agenda questions is over. Is there something else that we should discuss?
[12:54:14] <yngwin>	well, it seems we need a better day/time for meetings
[12:54:30] <yngwin>	and more contributors
[12:55:29] <yngwin>	i don't have much time myself
[12:56:23] <yngwin>	maybe in the summer vacation
[12:56:32] <yngwin>	after my move
[12:56:51] <Pinkbyte>	yeah, i will post a poll about next meeting date and time. I hope to see at least 4 members of team next time
[12:57:00] <yngwin>	that would be good
[12:59:15] <Pinkbyte>	About contributors. Is someone who does not know C/C++ at all can be in our team? I understand that this would be a problem for him(especially in digging problems in source code), but is knowledge of qmake/cmake and eclass functions sufficient for joining us?
[12:59:47] <Pinkbyte>	i am talking about my mentee, who will get commit access next week
[13:00:22] <yngwin>	i'm not a programmer either, my knowledge of c++ is minimal
[13:00:40] <yngwin>	so i would say: not a problem
[13:01:09] <Pinkbyte>	ok then. Meeting is over. Thanks to all(well, to both of us) ;-)
[13:01:15] <yngwin>	:D
