Gentoo Qt project meeting IRC logs 2012-12-08, 0915 â€“ 1040 UTC
Timestamps are UTC+8

[17:00:10] <yngwin> !herd qt
[17:00:10] <yngwin> hwoarang_, kensington, pesa, wired, yngwin
[17:00:10] <yngwin> meeting starts now
[17:01:43] <yngwin> anyone here?
[17:02:18] <DrEeevil> meeeee ;)
[17:02:29] <pesa> hi
[17:02:45] <yngwin> :)
[17:03:10] <yngwin> i guess wired didnt make it after all, and hwoarang_ isnt up yet
[17:03:29] <pesa> we can wait a bit of you want
[17:03:36] <yngwin> yeah
[17:03:37] <pesa> s/of/if/
[17:03:57] <pesa> agenda?
[17:04:07] <yngwin> http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Qt/Meeting/2012-12
[17:05:03] <yngwin> pesa: maybe you can fill in the blanks on that page
[17:05:12] <yngwin> esp. qt5 progress
[17:07:17] <hwoarang_> morning
[17:07:28] <pesa> hey hwoarang_!
[17:07:44] -*- hwoarang_ making coffee
[17:07:57] <yngwin> alrightee
[17:08:25] <pesa> yeah take your time
[17:09:50] <yngwin> i see my remote quassel core is back, so i'll switch to that then
[17:12:28] <-> You are now known as yngwin
[17:12:37] <-> hwoarang_ is now known as hwoarang
[17:14:50] <yngwin> ok, let us know when you're ready hwoarang
[17:15:05] <hwoarang> ok ready
[17:16:00] <yngwin> http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Qt/Meeting/2012-12
[17:16:05] <yngwin> 1. Qt5 progress 
[17:16:26] <yngwin> we have an rc now
[17:16:35] <yngwin> pesa, whats the current status?
[17:17:32] <pesa> so
[17:18:05] <pesa> upstream branched master for 5.0 release
[17:18:16] <pesa> actually master is now called "dev"
[17:18:30] <pesa> and they plan to have an additional 3rd branch
[17:18:46] <yngwin> ok
[17:18:55] <pesa> I still have to update our eclass for the new branching model but will do asap
[17:19:01] <yngwin> did they solve the parallel install issue?
[17:19:08] <hwoarang> reminds be of the good old state/master branches in Qt4
[17:19:14] <hwoarang> *stable
[17:19:19] <pesa> yngwin: which issue?
[17:19:26] <pesa> I guess 5.9999 => dev
[17:19:33] <pesa> 5.x.9999 => stable
[17:19:47] <yngwin> qt4 | qt5
[17:20:02] <pesa> and I don't think we need to package the "release" branch
[17:20:27] <pesa> oh well, upstream will provide a "toolwrapper" binary
[17:20:37] <pesa> I'm waiting for the announcement
[17:20:40] <yngwin> ok
[17:20:45] <hwoarang> hmm
[17:21:00] <hwoarang> so is this configuration still not supported?
[17:21:17] <pesa> but they did quite some changes to ease parallel installation with qt4
[17:21:27] <yngwin> so they're working on it
[17:21:32] <hwoarang> phew
[17:21:37] <pesa> it is, but binaries are in /usr/lib/qt5/bin/
[17:21:44] <pesa> as suggested by upstream
[17:22:06] <pesa> the toolwrapper will be used by developers using qt
[17:22:18] <pesa> we will use the full path in our eclasses
[17:23:03] <yngwin> ok
[17:23:04] <pesa> so, since this is gonna be a cross-distro thing, we won't need to rename qmake
[17:23:20] <pesa> (I hope debian doesn't screw up as usual)
[17:23:41] <pesa> so /usr/bin/qmake will stay qt4
[17:24:05] <pesa> or maybe a symlink to the toolwrapper, but defaulting to qt4's qmake
[17:24:12] <pesa> that remains to be seen
[17:24:46] <pesa> I cleaned up the eclass a few days/weeks ago
[17:24:57] <pesa> and fixed some remaining issues yesterday
[17:25:25] <yngwin> so it looks like we're going to be in shape for the 5.0 release?
[17:25:33] <pesa> yes
[17:25:39] <yngwin> great
[17:25:47] <pesa> the biggest TODO thing is webkit now
[17:25:49] <yngwin> how about ebuilds for the rc?
[17:26:05] <yngwin> or do you recommend people to use live
[17:26:14] <pesa> live
[17:26:21] <yngwin> alright
[17:26:29] <pesa> the release candidates will be short-lived anyway
[17:26:31] <pesa> max 1 week
[17:26:35] <yngwin> so what is needed for webkit?
[17:26:47] <pesa> I haven't looked into it yet
[17:27:18] <yngwin> maybe we should ask for help from outside our team
[17:28:14] <pesa> well, that's a discussion for later...
[17:28:33] <pesa> but yes, we are slightly understaffed maybe
[17:28:41] <yngwin> really? from what i understand they want to release by the end of the year
[17:28:51] <pesa> correct
[17:29:01] <yngwin> it would be nice if we could offer a complete set of ebuilds by then
[17:29:06] <pesa> later == let's discuss at the end of the meeting :)
[17:29:20] <pesa> "open floor"
[17:29:50] <yngwin> ah ok
[17:31:57] <pesa> I think I can manage to provide a minimal set of 5.0 ebuilds
[17:32:19] <pesa> minimal set means essential modules + addons that are part of qtbase repo
[17:32:50] <hwoarang> do we really need one?
[17:33:07] <yngwin> ok
[17:33:08] <pesa> uh?
[17:33:30] <hwoarang> ah sorry I though you were referring to 5.0_rc
[17:33:46] <pesa> I'm talking about final
[17:33:52] <hwoarang> okok
[17:34:01] <pesa> cool
[17:34:03] <pesa> let's move on
[17:34:41] <yngwin> then point 2: Qt4
[17:35:35] <hwoarang> yes we need it stable sooner or later
[17:35:49] <pesa> yeah
[17:36:06] <hwoarang> but i'd say we wait for a wekk
[17:36:08] <hwoarang> *week
[17:36:16] <hwoarang> see if something bad pops up
[17:36:17] <pesa> yeah let's wait one more week and then open stabilization request
[17:36:36] <pesa> the security issue is not critical afaiu
[17:36:49] <yngwin> I bumped to 4.8.4, it seems there were no issues this time
[17:36:50] <yngwin> so shall we go for stable straight away? 
[17:37:15] <yngwin> ok, one more week is fair
[17:37:18] <hwoarang> i havent even updated yet :p
[17:37:43] <pesa> after 4.8.4 is stable we should remove earlier versions
[17:37:55] <hwoarang> yep
[17:37:56] <yngwin> agreed
[17:38:04] <pesa> (that allows me to simplify some eclass logic too)
[17:38:21] <hwoarang> good
[17:38:21] <yngwin> alright, anything else about qt4? 
[17:38:42] <pesa> nope
[17:39:06] <yngwin> ok then 3: razorqt
[17:39:26] <yngwin> had any of you tested this? 
[17:40:07] <hwoarang> havent built it for a while
[17:40:28] <yngwin> there was talk of a 0.5.2 release, but that seems no longer imminent
[17:40:55] <pesa> yngwin: yeah I tried it about 1 month ago
[17:40:56] <yngwin> so it's like to consider .1 for stable
[17:41:06] <yngwin> I'd
[17:41:11] <hwoarang> sounds good tome
[17:41:14] <pesa> 1month and a half actually
[17:41:32] <pesa> +1 from me as well
[17:42:31] <pesa> I assume you'll take care of it :)
[17:42:46] <pesa> of the stabilization request
[17:42:52] <yngwin> yeah its kinda my pet project :)
[17:43:06] <pesa> indeed
[17:43:16] <yngwin> 4. Open bugs then
[17:43:30] <yngwin> bug 388551: x11-libs/qt-gui should export GTK2_RC_FILES when USE="gtkstyle" is enabled - is there any way we can improve this? 
[17:43:41] <pesa> meh I don't care
[17:43:42] <yngwin> no bot so no link :(
[17:44:01] <pesa> I'd say just expand the log message
[17:44:06] <hwoarang> this is just a PITA
[17:44:11] <pesa> totally
[17:44:23] <pesa> screw gnome :P
[17:44:27] <yngwin> i really dont want to recommend gnome stuff
[17:44:40] <yngwin> and i dont get it why exporting the var doesnt work for some ppl
[17:44:57] <pesa> the worst thing is that gconf is deprecated afaik
[17:45:02] <yngwin> that too
[17:45:49] <yngwin> ok, let it be then?
[17:46:07] <pesa> do whatever you want
[17:46:10] <yngwin> 446287: mail-client/trojita-0.3.90: version bump - volunteer? 
[17:46:22] <hwoarang> well i can do that
[17:46:32] <yngwin> 443730: minitube desktop file: please apply patch 
[17:46:39] <hwoarang> me too
[17:46:43] <yngwin> :)
[17:46:49] <yngwin> 444262: avidemux - let's mask (but keep) 2.5*, and see if 2.6.0 is ready for unmask 
[17:47:01] <pesa> can't jkt bump it by himself?
[17:47:08] <hwoarang> no cvs access:)
[17:47:12] <pesa> why not?
[17:47:25] <pesa> he's a dev, isn't he?
[17:47:26] <hwoarang> well he is a GDP staffer
[17:47:37] <pesa> oh I see
[17:47:37] <yngwin> he should become a full dev then
[17:47:42] <yngwin> not that difficult
[17:48:03] <hwoarang> i bet he would if he was interested
[17:48:09] <pesa> ok hwoarang has volunteered anyway
[17:48:09] <hwoarang> he is around for so many years :)
[17:48:14] <pesa> right
[17:48:33] <yngwin> so, avidemux
[17:48:46] <hwoarang> this app needs to die
[17:48:54] <yngwin> well, is there a replacement?
[17:48:56] <pesa> avidemux -- let's unmask 2.6.0 and wait 1-2 weeks, then mask 2.5*
[17:49:00] <hwoarang> or stay masked forever
[17:49:16] <yngwin> we could just have it masked
[17:49:27] <yngwin> the bundling is horrible
[17:49:28] <pesa> but we need a permanent fix for the bundled ffmpeg
[17:49:32] <yngwin> but its a useful app
[17:49:37] <hwoarang> pesa: this app bundles the shit out of it
[17:49:39] <pesa> indeed
[17:49:44] <hwoarang> we will have to mask it again soon
[17:49:52] <pesa> true
[17:49:53] <yngwin> they dont just bundle it, they patch it too
[17:50:02] <hwoarang> heh
[17:50:06] <pesa> oh that's a major problem then
[17:50:12] <pesa> meh
[17:50:19] <yngwin> i've asked upstream to make it possible to build against system ffmpeg in the past, but they said they couldnt do that
[17:51:09] <pesa> they couldn't.....meh
[17:51:22] <yngwin> i used to use this a lot, but not anymore
[17:51:40] <yngwin> i'd hate to see it go tho, unless there is a replacement
[17:51:41] <pesa> iirc they use some private APIs
[17:52:26] <pesa> ok so...1) mask all versions 2) remove from tree, keep in overlay
[17:52:30] <yngwin> but yeah, i should test 2.6.0
[17:52:44] <hwoarang> we can keep it masked
[17:52:46] <hwoarang> intree
[17:52:46] <yngwin> my proposal is to keep in tree, but masked
[17:53:10] <pesa> ok
[17:53:14] <yngwin> there are definitely users who want it
[17:53:15] <pesa> fine with me
[17:53:19] <hwoarang> i can do that too
[17:53:36] <yngwin> :)
[17:53:41] <pesa> ty
[17:53:45] <yngwin> 347707: photivo - can we get a snapshot into official tree? 
[17:54:00] <pesa> -EDONTCARE
[17:54:02] <hwoarang> yes. i will do it
[17:54:06] <hwoarang> i knoiw the maintainer
[17:54:11] <pesa> awesome
[17:54:24] <yngwin> it needs a dep not yet in portage
[17:54:39] <yngwin> ok, lets do this :)
[17:54:48] <pesa> which one?
[17:55:02] <yngwin> cimg
[17:55:07] <hwoarang> thats ok
[17:55:11] <yngwin> https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=347707#c25
[17:55:23] <yngwin> in our overlay
[17:55:24] <pesa> ah cimg needs a bump too
[17:55:34] <pesa> according to euscan
[17:55:47] <yngwin> cool tool
[17:55:55] <yngwin> then 442414: app-editors/focuswriter - who wants to add an elog? 
[17:56:22] <yngwin> i guess i can take this one
[17:56:28] <yngwin> seems to be at my skill level :p
[17:56:34] <hwoarang> lol
[17:56:52] <pesa> ;)
[17:57:09] <yngwin> i actually have it installed, maybe it will motivate me to use it
[17:57:30] <yngwin> 410911: net-im/psi-0.15 version bump - this is already long overdue, who wants to work with proxy-maintainers to get this done? 
[17:57:40] <yngwin> i think hwoarang was already involved?
[17:57:52] <pesa> I was involved in psi ebuild a long time ago
[17:57:55] <hwoarang> yeah but Nikoli never actually did anything:(
[17:57:58] <yngwin> yeah
[17:58:02] <yngwin> ok
[17:58:08] <pesa> but I rarely use it now
[17:58:09] <yngwin> maybe i should have a look
[17:58:15] <yngwin> if i can make some time
[17:58:18] <hwoarang> we can ping him
[17:58:28] <hwoarang> see if he is still interested
[17:58:38] <pesa> so, as I said at last meeting, I will definitely look into it, but it has the least priority
[17:58:40] <hwoarang> i dont even know what psi is :)
[17:58:44] <pesa> hwoarang: yeah
[17:59:12] <yngwin> qt equivalent of pidgin / kopete
[17:59:27] <pesa> well, not really
[17:59:34] <pesa> it's a jabber-only client
[17:59:36] <yngwin> roughly
[17:59:50] <pesa> pidgin/kopete are multi-protocol
[17:59:54] <hwoarang> ah i see
[17:59:59] <yngwin> ah i thought it could do others too
[18:00:12] <yngwin> but only thru transport then
[18:00:16] <pesa> only using server-side transport yes
[18:00:32] <yngwin> anyway, i think its good enough to keep it up to date
[18:00:39] <pesa> agreed
[18:00:45] <hwoarang> ok
[18:00:53] <yngwin> so i will try to make some time for this
[18:00:57] <pesa> so, ping nikoli
[18:01:18] <pesa> and maybe I can also find some time after qt5 is done
[18:01:28] <yngwin> he did leave 2 comments on the bug the other day
[18:01:43] <yngwin> oh wait thats a month ago
[18:01:48] <hwoarang> haha
[18:01:55] <yngwin> :+
[18:02:07] <pesa> lol
[18:02:10] <yngwin> 442178: net-libs/telepathy-qt-0.9.3 fails CallChannel test - disable specific tests? 
[18:02:39] <yngwin> or whatever is going on there
[18:03:03] <hwoarang> we could
[18:03:14] <hwoarang> who cares :p
[18:03:39] <yngwin> i have tests disabled
[18:03:41] <pesa> might be a real issue
[18:03:53] <yngwin> i know, bad bad, but they fail too often to be useful for me
[18:04:20] <pesa> yngwin: use test-fail-continue
[18:04:21] <pesa> :)
[18:04:22] <hwoarang> i have a vm with tests enabled
[18:04:32] <hwoarang> same config as my desktop
[18:04:41] <yngwin> i also dont want to waste time and heat on it - my poor laptop
[18:04:41] <hwoarang> i am a good developer -_-
[18:05:07] <yngwin> i can do that as soon as infra gives me access to the vm they have promised
[18:05:08] <pesa> yngwin: oh yeah that's a different matter
[18:05:18] <pesa> and very valid reason imho
[18:05:41] <pesa> some test suites take *hours*
[18:05:54] <yngwin> so, anyone cares enough to look into this?
[18:06:08] <pesa> it happens on hardened only right?
[18:06:50] <yngwin> dunno
[18:06:56] <yngwin> in that case i care even less
[18:07:01] <pesa> I think we should leave it open
[18:07:09] <yngwin> ok
[18:07:25] <pesa> until someone has time or a new upstream release pops up
[18:07:35] <yngwin> fine
[18:07:48] <yngwin> 444118: net-irc/communi new pkg - anyone interested? proxy-maint? 
[18:08:09] <hwoarang> if a user is interested yes
[18:08:19] <yngwin> rion
[18:08:30] <yngwin> i think he's recruitment material
[18:08:31] <hwoarang> ok move it from qt4 to proxy-maint
[18:08:34] <hwoarang> keep qt4 out of it
[18:08:37] <hwoarang> :)
[18:08:46] <hwoarang> heh
[18:09:19] <yngwin> ok, i'll ask him if he want to proxy maintain
[18:09:32] <yngwin> 269110: new ebuild app-text/coolreader3 - in qt overlay now, any comments? 
[18:10:04] <yngwin> no one seemed interested in this, but i picked it up recently, dropping the wxwidgets ui, only doing qt4 now
[18:10:04] <pesa> what is it? :P
[18:10:09] <yngwin> ebook reader
[18:10:14] <pesa> oh well
[18:10:16] <yngwin> i use the android version on my phone
[18:10:27] <yngwin> its good enough for desktop use too tho
[18:10:50] <hwoarang> well i am not interested, so it is up 2 you
[18:10:56] <pesa> seems a nice addition though
[18:11:01] <yngwin> yeah
[18:11:21] <yngwin> i'm not going to test anything but the qt ui, so i want to keep it simple
[18:11:38] <pesa> yeah
[18:11:39] <yngwin> this seems to be the most up to date one anyway
[18:11:49] <pesa> build just the qt ui
[18:12:00] <yngwin> ok
[18:12:02] <pesa> who uses wxwidgets anyway?
[18:12:07] <yngwin> brrrr
[18:12:10] <pesa> they suck big time
[18:12:52] <yngwin> ok, i'll have another look at the ebuild some day, and if i think it's in shape, i'll add the latest release
[18:13:28] <yngwin> 441914: x11-libs/qtsingleapplication please package - thoughts? 
[18:14:01] <yngwin> as i mention on the bug, i am in principle for packaging this
[18:14:17] <pesa> yngwin: the description could be improved
[18:14:26] <yngwin> yeah
[18:14:52] <pesa> of coolreader I mean
[18:15:09] <yngwin> ah ok
[18:15:22] <yngwin> i'll see if i can make it more specific
[18:15:28] <pesa> yep ty
[18:15:34] <pesa> I am in favor of packaging qtsingleapp
[18:15:57] <yngwin> since q-s-a is small, i dont think its high priority to start unbundling, but we could package it and start requesting upstreams to use that
[18:16:17] <yngwin> ok, who wants to do the ebuild?
[18:16:24] <pesa> the question is: do they guarantee API/ABI stability?
[18:16:25] <yngwin> kensington? :D
[18:17:02] <yngwin> i'm not sure, has it changed significantly recently?
[18:17:32] <pesa> good point
[18:17:39] <pesa> I dont think so
[18:17:47] <yngwin> i dont think so either
[18:18:04] <yngwin> but yeah, thats something we have to start tracking then
[18:18:15] <yngwin> any volunteers?
[18:19:04] <yngwin> lets see if kensington wants to have a go at this then
[18:19:40] <yngwin> 440584: x11-libs/qt-gui-4.8.2: some elog messages should only be shown when upgrading from an old enough package - volunteer? 
[18:19:40] <pesa> wait, is there a release tarball available somewhere?
[18:19:46] <yngwin> i dont think so
[18:20:01] <yngwin> which is why everyone bundles it
[18:20:10] <pesa> meh
[18:20:14] <pesa> this sucks then
[18:21:08] <pesa> but let's move on, we can always package a snapshot from git
[18:21:19] <yngwin> yes
[18:22:33] <yngwin> ok, so no volunteers for the elog msg
[18:22:47] <yngwin> i will take this, but it has low priority
[18:23:07] <pesa> yep
[18:23:10] <yngwin> 431460: dev-python/PyQt4: Synchronize USE flags with dev-python/pyside - let's do this? 
[18:23:27] <pesa> yeah will do that after qt5 is sorted out
[18:23:59] <pesa> I have to check revdeps carefully because I don't trust arfrever
[18:24:13] <hwoarang> heh
[18:24:13] <yngwin> good
[18:25:07] <yngwin> anything else that i didnt put on the list?
[18:25:22] <pesa> I was also looking at transitioning sip/pyqt4 to the new python eclasses
[18:25:32] <pesa> but that's even lower priority
[18:25:45] <yngwin> yeah, they are not quite stable yet, i think
[18:25:49] <pesa> last time I looked, the new eclasses were not powerful enough to support those ebuilds
[18:26:12] <yngwin> well, ask mgorny to have a look
[18:26:20] <yngwin> he can update the eclasses as needed
[18:26:21] <pesa> yeah I did already :)
[18:26:28] <yngwin> :)
[18:26:36] <yngwin> alright
[18:26:38] <yngwin>  5. Open floor 
[18:27:01] <yngwin> i added a couple of points there, as it seems we are more stretched recently
[18:27:19] <yngwin> btw, do we know when wired comes back to active duty?
[18:27:37] <hwoarang> in a month or so
[18:27:42] <hwoarang> make it two
[18:27:46] <yngwin> ok
[18:28:10] <yngwin> should we try to recruit a few new members?
[18:28:11] <pesa> good
[18:28:22] <pesa> probably yes
[18:28:41] <pesa> but I don't see many active users on bugzilla on qt stuff
[18:28:46] <yngwin> indeed
[18:29:00] <hwoarang> yeah ...
[18:29:08] <yngwin> there are some people interested in proxy-maintaining certain packages, but it seems limited
[18:29:25] <pesa> qt4/5 itself is quite scary, so I can understand that
[18:29:25] <yngwin> even so, if we dont publish our need for help...
[18:29:40] <pesa> but the apps we maintain are in fact rather easy
[18:29:49] <hwoarang> yes there is the staffing-needs page
[18:29:53] <hwoarang> and G+/blogs etc
[18:30:00] <yngwin> well, not everyone needs to maintain the qt libs, there are many apps that need love too now
[18:30:06] <pesa> yngwin: exactly
[18:30:10] <yngwin> yep
[18:30:11] <hwoarang> lets just say we need one more person for qt-*/eclass help
[18:30:29] <yngwin> i'll see if i can write something up and put that in several places
[18:30:32] <hwoarang> ebuilds are easy and we can offload stuff to proxy-maintainers
[18:30:49] <pesa> well, I'd ask for help with misc qt apps rather than for qt itself
[18:31:01] <yngwin> yeah, i think that is where we should start
[18:31:05] <hwoarang> pesa: in this case itmight be better
[18:31:07] <yngwin> they can get more involved later
[18:31:14] <yngwin> as they wish
[18:31:19] <hwoarang> to compile a list with apps we want to offload
[18:31:28] <pesa> yngwin: exactly
[18:31:50] <pesa> qt is very complex, they might get frustrated and leave soon
[18:32:07] <yngwin> i'm still here :)
[18:32:10] <yngwin> well, again
[18:33:02] <yngwin> but yeah its only getting more complex
[18:33:36] <yngwin> i was also thinking, i'd like those proxy-maintainers more involved
[18:33:43] <yngwin> like ATs
[18:34:06] <hwoarang> they did not sign up for this :)
[18:34:17] <hwoarang> each one of them is interested in one app
[18:34:21] <yngwin> but maybe some would, if we'd ask them
[18:34:44] <pesa> hwoarang: that's still a good thing
[18:35:14] <pesa> even offloading a few apps would be nice
[18:35:17] <hwoarang> yes definitely##
[18:35:47] <yngwin> of course we cant demand anything, but we can be more open to invite people
[18:36:10] <pesa> sure
[18:36:16] <hwoarang> yes
[18:36:21] <yngwin> anyway, those points probably go together
[18:36:36] <yngwin> alright, anything else?
[18:36:49] <hwoarang> yngwin: saying something to Gentoo G+page
[18:36:53] <yngwin> yes
[18:36:54] <hwoarang> seems a good start
[18:37:14] <yngwin> i'll put it there, and on -dev and -desktop ml, on the forums, and the staffing needs page
[18:37:37] <pesa> yeah :D
[18:37:45] <hwoarang> goodgood
[18:39:37] <hwoarang> are we done?
[18:39:47] <yngwin> if you dont have anything else
[18:39:54] <pesa> nope
[18:39:54] <hwoarang> i dont:)
[18:39:58] <yngwin> ok
[18:40:01] <yngwin> ==================