Gentoo Qt project meeting 2013-04-20
Timestamps are UTC+8

[16:01:57] <yngwin> !herd qt
[16:01:58] <willikins> (qt) hwoarang, kensington, pesa, pinkbyte, wired, yngwin
[16:02:04] <yngwin> time to start our meeting
[16:02:15] <Pinkbyte> i am in ;-)
[16:02:19] <yngwin> agenda at http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Qt/Meeting/2013-04
[16:02:22] <yngwin> who's here?
[16:04:10] <yngwin> hm, where did pesa go?
[16:04:51] -*- DrEeevil is lurking
[16:05:56] <pesa> yo
[16:06:46] <yngwin> ah
[16:07:15] <pesa> what
[16:07:20] <yngwin> there you are
[16:07:52] <yngwin> well, shall we start then?
[16:07:56] <pesa> update the topic :)
[16:08:19] <pesa> and yes let's start
[16:08:21] <yngwin> the channel topic? if i could...
[16:08:57] <pesa> no worries then
[16:08:59] <yngwin> but thats a good point, why dont we have ops here
[16:09:01] <pesa> nv
[16:09:10] <pesa> dilfridge is
[16:09:25] <yngwin> yeah but all gentoo devs should be
[16:09:37] <yngwin> anyway
[16:09:47] <yngwin> 1. Elections for project lead
[16:10:04] <yngwin> but we only have half the team here
[16:10:13] <pesa> who's here?
[16:10:22] <yngwin> Pinkbyte, you and me
[16:10:23] <Pinkbyte> \o/
[16:10:35] <yngwin> hwoarang said he would be late
[16:10:37] <pesa> hwoarang should be joining
[16:10:53] <pesa> anyway
[16:11:01] <yngwin> kensington cant join, wired we havent heard from
[16:11:22] <pesa> I think you did a good job as team leader so far
[16:11:26] <yngwin> thanks
[16:12:23] <yngwin> but Pinkbyte said he'd also volunteer for it
[16:12:36] <pesa> I'd be happy to vote for you again, but you don't seem to be going to accept the candidacy, are you?
[16:12:36] <yngwin> maybe we should have the vote by email then
[16:13:42] <pesa> in that case, I'm sure Pinkbyte will do a great job as well
[16:14:00] <yngwin> i can do this, i just thought i would give others a chance
[16:14:29] <pesa> oh ok, let's vote by email then
[16:15:20] <yngwin> alright, let's move on then
[16:15:35] <yngwin> 2. Qt5 status
[16:15:44] <yngwin> i see you have added a good bit on the wiki page
[16:16:36] <pesa> yep
[16:17:21] <yngwin> are we still on track for 5.1 inclusion?
[16:17:45] <pesa> 5.1.0? I don't think so
[16:18:20] <DrEeevil> if y'all need any build-testing done ...
[16:18:32] <yngwin> could you make a list of what needs to happen before then?
[16:18:41] <pesa> it really depends on how much time I can spend on gentoo development
[16:18:46] <yngwin> DrEeevil: yeah, but that's not really the problem
[16:19:02] <DrEeevil> yngwin: yeah, but it might help
[16:19:13] <pesa> yngwin: sure, I'll try
[16:19:28] <yngwin> pesa: i'm thinking that if you have a specific task list, we could post that on dev ml and maybe get some help
[16:20:05] <pesa> DrEeevil: as of right now, I need to know which revdeps of qtgui need the designer app or libs to build/run
[16:20:25] <DrEeevil> pesa: ok
[16:20:34] <pesa> and qtgui has tons of revdeps
[16:20:38] <pesa> :/
[16:20:52] <yngwin> yeah but i cant imagine there are many using designer
[16:21:09] <pesa> right, but we need to check them all
[16:21:15] <yngwin> sure
[16:21:22] <pesa> of course you can exclude a lot of them
[16:22:00] <pesa> DrEeevil: just a build test would be nice as a start
[16:22:43] <yngwin> well, we really have 2 issues here: Qt5, and the split off ebuilds from current Qt4
[16:22:46] <pesa> I know that e.g. qscintilla builds a designer plugin
[16:23:12] <pesa> yngwin: correct, the second thing is a prerequisit for the first
[16:23:27] <yngwin> yes, ok
[16:23:59] <DrEeevil> pesa: qt 5.1 and all revdeps?
[16:24:32] <pesa> DrEeevil: what? no sorry, I'm talking about qtgui-4.8* now
[16:24:47] <DrEeevil> oh ok. noted :)
[16:25:15] <pesa> DrEeevil: but wait, unless you want to use the live ebuilds, I first need to backport the changes to 4.8.4-r${something}
[16:25:28] <DrEeevil> works for me
[16:25:47] <pesa> what works? the live ebuild?
[16:26:01] <pesa> or waiting?
[16:26:48] <pesa> also, suggestions appreciated for the value of $something
[16:27:17] <pesa> 10?
[16:27:32] <yngwin> sorry guys, i'm having connectivity problems, so if i am unresponsive...
[16:28:05] <pesa> dont worry
[16:28:24] <yngwin> why would it need to be something special?
[16:28:45] <yngwin> Just go for latest +1
[16:28:49] <pesa> it's gonna stay masked for a while
[16:29:11] <pesa> and in case some other urgent fixes need to be applied to current -r1...
[16:29:20] <yngwin> that's what we have an overlay for
[16:29:28] <DrEeevil> give me precise instructions and I can build anything - I don't care if it's a live ebuild or patched release
[16:29:57] <pesa> DrEeevil: cool, I'll explain you later then
[16:30:22] <pesa> yngwin: I'm not following
[16:30:51] <pesa> how does the overlay solves the revision ordering issue?
[16:31:14] <yngwin> if you need to develop something that's not quite ready for the tree, let's do it in the overlay
[16:31:33] <pesa> that's why I did so far with the live ebuilds
[16:31:41] <yngwin> yeah
[16:31:47] <pesa> now I'd like to apply the changes to 4.8.4
[16:31:52] <pesa> i.e. revbump it
[16:32:07] <yngwin> so I don't see the problem
[16:33:20] <pesa> if i revbump to -r2 and tomorrow we need to apply a security patch, I would need to revbump -r1 to -r3 and -r2 to -r4
[16:33:20] <yngwin> Just use the next available -rX
[16:36:10] <yngwin> as long as it needs to be in development, we can keep it in the overlay; any security revbumps can be applied there too
[16:36:43] <pesa> more work :P
[16:37:00] <yngwin> I don't think this should take long
[16:37:22] <pesa> true
[16:38:24] <pesa> but heh I have a stronger argument
[16:39:34] <pesa> dev-qt/designer and dev-qt/linguist will need to depend on a revision of qtgui which doesnt include those apps, to avoid file collisions
[16:39:53] <yngwin> if there's a security fix, you'd need to bump the split ebuild anyway
[16:40:02] <pesa> so what do we do? keep changing the dependency atom in the split ebuilds?
[16:40:25] <yngwin> hmm yes, I see
[16:40:47] <pesa> that means even more work
[16:41:21] <pesa> and since time is already scarce...
[16:41:24] <yngwin> ideally we wouldn't need to keep changing it, since this shouldn't take long to figure out if it works, and its not like we revbump qt that often
[16:41:47] <pesa> true
[16:43:19] <pesa> I agree with all of your points, but you still haven't provided a reason why the rev numbers must be incremental :P
[16:44:11] <yngwin> because i dont see a reason for using magic numbers
[16:44:30] <pesa> I provided 2 reasons
[16:45:47] <pesa> you can ignore the first, but the second is a good one
[16:46:52] <pesa> if we are fast enough you can hope the second won't be an issue as well
[16:47:07] -*- hwoarang is awake
[16:47:08] <yngwin> as long as it's in the overlay only, I don't care too much
[16:47:38] <pesa> hey hwoarang
[16:47:47] <pesa> good morning ;)
[16:48:01] <hwoarang> moin
[16:48:04] <pesa> yngwin: let's move on anyway
[16:48:09] <hwoarang> please continue. i am reading the backlog
[16:48:22] <yngwin> yeah, and I'm on my phone now...
[16:48:31] <yngwin> bless Quassel
[16:48:32] <pesa> ah that sucks
[16:48:45] <pesa> so
[16:48:56] <pesa> I plan to split more stuff from our current 4.8 ebuilds
[16:49:09] <yngwin> ok, I can help with that
[16:49:33] <pesa> good
[16:49:35] <yngwin> I have a few days off around May 1st
[16:50:06] <yngwin> and I have access to the amd64 dev box
[16:50:26] <pesa> just work on the live ebuilds first, then -r${whatever} in overlay
[16:51:08] <pesa> or you can do both at the same time if you prefer working on the released tarballs
[16:51:17] <pesa> cloning qt could be a pita
[16:51:39] <yngwin> I'd prefer working on the released version
[16:51:59] <pesa> ok
[16:52:20] <yngwin> but we can work that out
[16:52:35] <yngwin> how about the blocker you mentioned
[16:52:37] <pesa> I'll write the list of tools that need splitting
[16:52:50] <yngwin> bug 451456
[16:52:52] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/451456 "[qt overlay] Qt5 packages try to link against already installed versions during recompilation"; Gentoo Linux, Library; UNCO; eugene.shalygin:qt
[16:53:05] <pesa> well I havent had time to look into it
[16:53:31] <yngwin> ok, todo
[16:53:43] <pesa> as I probably said last time, it's quite tough
[16:54:13] <yngwin> yeah because upstream doesn't support our way of doing things
[16:54:20] <pesa> indeed
[16:54:35] <yngwin> sucks to be us, sometimes
[16:54:42] <pesa> yep
[16:55:04] <pesa> I hope 5.1 will have some improvements there
[16:55:04] <yngwin> shall we move to the next point then?
[16:55:12] <pesa> yes
[16:55:52] <yngwin> 3. remaining to-do items
[16:56:15] <yngwin> nothing happened yet wrt github
[16:57:31] <yngwin> I'll see if I can do that later today, if I can get connectivity fixed
[16:57:54] <hwoarang> well
[16:58:08] <hwoarang> it's just a matter of creating a new repo and push there?
[16:58:22] <yngwin> basically
[16:58:35] <hwoarang> llike, douple push but instead of gitorious ->github
[16:58:36] <hwoarang> i can do that
[16:58:46] <yngwin> yup
[16:58:53] <hwoarang> ok
[16:58:55] <Pinkbyte> by the way, if we are talking about this - can anybody add me to gentoo organization on github? Or i should talk to infra about this?
[16:59:24] <hwoarang> dunno who has access. summers and tampakrap for sure
[16:59:43] <yngwin> yeah talk to infra
[16:59:56] <Pinkbyte> ok
[17:00:16] <hwoarang> robbat,a3li and idl0r too
[17:00:50] <pesa> who manages write access to the repo once it's created?
[17:01:11] <hwoarang> everybody in the organization has access
[17:01:35] <pesa> ok
[17:02:20] <pesa> but can we add other people?
[17:02:26] <Pinkbyte> oh, one more question - now about qt overlay at git.o.g.o. Just to clarify things - who has access to it? All gentoo-devs?
[17:02:37] <pesa> i.e. non gentoo devs
[17:02:50] <pesa> Pinkbyte: no, I don't think so
[17:03:07] <pesa> there's an ACL or something like that, managed by infra
[17:03:14] <hwoarang> indeed
[17:03:38] <hwoarang> pesa: dunno i will have to check if is possible
[17:04:08] <pesa> or we could use "pull request" on the github repo
[17:04:14] <pesa> *requests
[17:04:22] <hwoarang> yeah that was the main motivation i believe
[17:04:24] <yngwin> I think we can add participants on github
[17:04:29] <pesa> but then we need to pull from it and push to gogo
[17:04:44] <hwoarang> but we already douple push
[17:04:53] <pesa> or the two mirrors will go out-of-sync
[17:04:53] <yngwin> for individual repos
[17:04:57] <pesa> yes but you pull from gogo only
[17:05:21] <hwoarang> i believe whoever handles the pull request knows how to push back changes :)
[17:05:31] <hwoarang> there you go
[17:05:32] <hwoarang> https://github.com/gentoo/qt
[17:06:09] <pesa> hwoarang: it's error-prone though
[17:06:13] <hwoarang> it is
[17:06:14] <yngwin> indeed, of you handle a pull request, just make sure you push again
[17:06:15] <pesa> one might forget
[17:07:06] <hwoarang> indeed we shall make the github the one where we base our work
[17:07:18] <hwoarang> and forget about the other one. we can keep it in sync with push -f or something
[17:07:24] <hwoarang> as a backup
[17:08:02] <yngwin> I did propose that last time...
[17:08:11] <hwoarang> makes sense
[17:08:42] <pesa> hmm
[17:09:06] <hwoarang> makes me wonder if it is possible to update layman to pull from a different repo. or that would screw everybody
[17:09:27] <hwoarang> it should be...
[17:09:43] <yngwin> I think people would need to delete and re add
[17:09:56] <Pinkbyte> yep
[17:10:11] <pesa> technically it's just changing the git remote
[17:10:35] <pesa> but I don't think layman can do that
[17:10:42] <yngwin> yeah but I don't think there is a way to let layman handle that gracefully
[17:11:00] <hwoarang> oh not again :(
[17:11:05] <pesa> this is a non-issue anyway, gogo is still supported
[17:11:08] <hwoarang> fyi i am deleting the repo on gitorious
[17:11:24] <yngwin> wait
[17:11:44] <yngwin> we still have wiki pages there
[17:11:53] <yngwin> tho that's tribal
[17:12:10] <pesa> lol
[17:12:12] <hwoarang> hmm
[17:12:25] <yngwin> I meant: tho that's technically another repo
[17:12:53] <pesa> dunno, the pages might be associated with the repo
[17:13:05] <yngwin> (missed backspace there)
[17:14:19] <hwoarang> hm we also have the eselect module on gitorious
[17:14:23] <pesa> hwoarang: also please send an announcement/warning to qt@g.o about the change
[17:14:32] <hwoarang> yeh ok
[17:14:35] <yngwin> lets dump the old meeting summaries on our new wiki
[17:14:40] <pesa> let's move that too
[17:14:49] <pesa> the eselect module I mean
[17:15:07] <yngwin> yeah, let's put that on github too
[17:15:47] <pesa> oh
[17:15:54] <pesa> the README is seriously outdated
[17:16:02] <yngwin> yup
[17:16:46] <hwoarang> the wiki seems to see linked to the account
[17:16:48] <hwoarang> not the repo
[17:17:06] <yngwin> makes sense
[17:17:53] <pesa> perfect
[17:18:07] <yngwin> alright, shall we move on then?
[17:18:20] <hwoarang> ok
[17:18:47] <pesa> FYI I'm disabling "issues" and "wiki" on github
[17:19:02] <yngwin> yes please
[17:19:14] <pesa> we already have our tools :)
[17:19:20] <hwoarang> ok
[17:19:44] <yngwin> we should put that in the readme, if it isn't already
[17:20:22] <yngwin> alright, what's next?
[17:20:34] <pesa> oh cool
[17:20:47] <pesa> there's an IRC hook for commit notifications
[17:21:16] <yngwin> nice
[17:21:51] <hwoarang> ooh TEH SPAM
[17:21:53] <hwoarang> bring it to us!
[17:21:57] <pesa> and bugzilla too
[17:22:23] <yngwin> any other remaining to-dos we need to discuss?
[17:22:49] <hwoarang> (fyi i am also deleting qting-edge-deprecated, last commit
[17:22:51] <pesa> everything from previous meetings that hasn't been done
[17:22:58] <hwoarang> a year ago)
[17:23:11] <pesa> but that doesnt require any discussion
[17:23:16] <pesa> hwoarang: on gitorious?
[17:23:17] <hwoarang> everybody should be on the new repo by now
[17:23:18] <hwoarang> yes
[17:23:26] <pesa> ah yeah go for it please
[17:23:48] <yngwin> yeah no new comments on my remaining todos
[17:24:23] <yngwin> bug 447368 ?
[17:24:26] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/447368 "qt4-build.eclass - cpu autodetection and cpu specific flags"; Gentoo Linux, Eclasses and Profiles; UNCO; q:qt
[17:25:04] <pesa> nothin new
[17:25:07] <pesa> on my side
[17:25:14] <yngwin> ok, next
[17:25:36] <yngwin> bug 464690
[17:25:38] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/464690 "=net-im/qutim-0.3.1 fails to connect"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; CONF; ago:qt
[17:26:31] <pesa> ideas?
[17:27:28] <yngwin> No
[17:27:38] <Pinkbyte> i did not check qutim's xmpp a long time, it's sad if it is broken :-/
[17:28:07] <yngwin> I can try to reproduce on a non-kde system
[17:28:19] <pesa> yngwin: yes please
[17:28:31] <yngwin> ok
[17:28:41] <pesa> there seems to be an issue with plugin loading
[17:31:07] <yngwin> if nothing else, then next bug 465874
[17:31:09] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/465874 "[qt overlay] app-text/goldendict-9999 - processwrapper.cc:99:19: error: 'getpid' was not declared in this scope"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; UNCO; cornicx:qt
[17:31:14] * dilfridge has changed topic for #gentoo-meetings to: "Gentoo Meetings | Qt team meeting, agenda http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Qt/Meeting/2013-04"
[17:31:19] <dilfridge> morning all
[17:31:28] <yngwin> moin
[17:31:28] <Pinkbyte> moin
[17:32:40] <yngwin> well, this should be a simple fix, right?
[17:32:45] <pesa> hello dilfridge
[17:32:53] <pesa> yngwin: yep
[17:33:24] <yngwin> so anyone with time, feel free ;)
[17:33:36] <pesa> absolutely
[17:33:48] <yngwin> bug 465284
[17:33:50] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/465284 "media-libs/herqq-1.0.0-r1 build fails with bad qmake usage."; Gentoo Linux, KDE; CONF; richard:kde
[17:35:48] <yngwin> well?
[17:35:56] <pesa> what do you say?
[17:36:06] <pesa> I'm tempted to close as invalid
[17:36:14] <pesa> or wontfix
[17:36:48] <pesa> just to force people to have sane values in their make.conf
[17:36:52] <yngwin> I'll go with your judgement, as I'm not as familiar with qmake internals
[17:37:08] <yngwin> wontfix probably
[17:37:17] <pesa> well I'm trying to make a different point
[17:37:29] <pesa> the bug in qmake might be very valid
[17:37:42] <pesa> but why the hell one has to put tabs in CXXFLAGS?
[17:38:08] <pesa> fix your damn config I'd say
[17:39:13] <yngwin> yeah it's a bit irregular
[17:39:43] <Pinkbyte> +1 from my side. You can not put tab in CFLAGS in command-line, so why you should put it in make.conf?
[17:40:22] <Pinkbyte> but, tbh, it would be nice to get some warning from portage about that
[17:40:31] <Pinkbyte> for user, i mean
[17:40:55] <pesa> well gcc itself supports tabs I guess?
[17:41:22] <Pinkbyte> does it?
[17:41:40] <pesa> dunno, I'm assuming it does
[17:42:44] <yngwin> either way, close as you see fit
[17:43:13] <pesa> Pinkbyte: yeah it does
[17:43:50] <Pinkbyte> ok, then just closing the bug would be right solution, IMO
[17:44:27] <pesa> this works:
[17:44:29] <pesa> gcc -E$(echo $'\t')-Wall - <<< ''
[17:44:44] <yngwin> also, if anyone knows a bit about pam and consolekit, I could use some help on how to proceed with bug 462824
[17:44:46] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/462824 "=x11-misc/sddm-0.1.0 released"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; CONF; andreas.sturmlechner:qt
[17:45:32] <pesa> ssuominen and/or flameeyes should know about consolekit/pam
[17:46:12] <yngwin> yeah ok
[17:46:39] <pesa> oh I also saw a bug about some virtual
[17:47:28] <yngwin> ?
[17:47:58] <Pinkbyte> probably - bug #461366
[17:47:59] <willikins> Pinkbyte: https://bugs.gentoo.org/461366 "virtual/notification-daemon - add razorqt-base/razorqt-notifications"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; UNCO; mucinesra:freedesktop-bugs
[17:48:10] <pesa> yeah that one
[17:49:45] <pesa> aha! gcc doesn't accept newline though
[17:49:59] <yngwin> yes, I think we can apply that
[17:51:25] <yngwin> anything else?
[17:52:45] <pesa> I guess not
[17:53:10] <yngwin> anything for open floor?
[17:54:55] <yngwin> then this meeting is over
[17:55:08] <yngwin> thanks guys
[17:55:56] <Pinkbyte> thank you too. Will wait mail about lead election from you :-)
[17:56:38] <yngwin> sure
[17:56:55] <pesa> thanks guys
