Gentoo Qt project meeting 2013-03-09
Timestamps are UTC+8

[17:00:27] <willikins> (qt) hwoarang, kensington, pesa, pinkbyte, wired, yngwin
[17:00:35] <yngwin> meeting is starting now
[17:00:48] <Pinkbyte> i am in
[17:00:48] <yngwin> agenda at http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Qt/Meeting/2013-03
[17:01:01] <pesa> here
[17:01:04] <yngwin> who else is here?
[17:01:21] <radio`> i'm here
[17:01:27] <yngwin> kensington, wired?
[17:04:14] <yngwin> maybe they will join us later, let's start
[17:04:35] <yngwin> 1. New contributors
[17:04:41] <yngwin> welcome Pinkbyte
[17:04:49] <yngwin> welcome radio`
[17:05:02] <yngwin> that's jeremy, who wrote us a few days ago
[17:05:32] <pesa> got it
[17:05:44] <pesa> and welcome to both of you!
[17:05:49] <yngwin> a couple of other people have written, but i haven't seen them on irc yet
[17:06:00] <Pinkbyte> yeah, i see his e-mail
[17:06:08] <Pinkbyte> radio`, добро пожаловать ;-)
[17:06:17] <pesa> I don't blame them
[17:06:18] <radio`> hi :)
[17:06:21] <pesa> irc sucks :P
[17:06:23] <yngwin> hehe
[17:06:24] <Pinkbyte> (well, he says that he knows Russian)
[17:06:27] <radio`> i don't have cyrillic chars installed
[17:06:37] <Pinkbyte> then: welcome :-)
[17:07:11] <yngwin> as i added to the agenda, maybe we could/should add some stuff to our project pages on the wiki for our new contributors
[17:07:29] <yngwin> e.g. overlay workflow
[17:07:49] <yngwin> any thoughts about that?
[17:07:56] <Pinkbyte> yeah, overlay guideline would be nice(cause i do not know anything about Qt overlay too)
[17:08:14] <pesa> afaik the only rule is: overlay first
[17:08:33] <yngwin> and check with repoman before you commit
[17:08:57] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, and maybe link to devmanual as a generic source for ebuild guidelines
[17:08:58] <yngwin> and things like: we dont do changelog files in the overlay
[17:08:59] <pesa> well yeah that's obvious
[17:09:23] <yngwin> obvious to you, but not to users who are new to contributing
[17:09:23] <Pinkbyte> pesa, it's obvious for us, as devs, but not for newcomers :-)
[17:09:33] <pesa> ok ok :P
[17:09:42] <pesa> you might be right
[17:09:43] <yngwin> but yes, devmanual link 
[17:09:46] <pesa> might be
[17:09:50] <pesa> :)
[17:10:28] <pesa> I guess that signed commit are preferred too, but not mandatory
[17:10:35] <pesa> commits*
[17:11:02] <yngwin> how does that work for overlays?
[17:11:07] <Pinkbyte> yeah, i think that overlay's policy may be not so strict about signing and other stuff
[17:11:28] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, if you commit with repoman - it will work everywhere, will not it?
[17:11:29] <pesa> yngwin: repoman commit handles everything
[17:11:38] <yngwin> ok, cool
[17:11:43] <yngwin> then i'm all set :)
[17:11:58] <pesa> it signs the git commit object itself instead of the Manifest
[17:12:22] <Pinkbyte> pesa, cool! Do not use repoman with git yet
[17:12:29] <Pinkbyte> s/Do/I do/
[17:12:47] <pesa> you should ;)
[17:12:57] <Pinkbyte> damn. I guess you understand my ugly English :-/
[17:13:24] <yngwin> you should hear my students...
[17:13:33] <pesa> it still cannot handle profiles/ and eclass/ but anyway
[17:14:04] <radio`> i'm not familiar with most of this, so i approve of it going in a manual somewhere :)
[17:14:16] <yngwin> thats what i thought :)
[17:14:32] <radio`> i have used subversion a little, but not git, yet.
[17:14:41] <yngwin> and you can always ask any of us
[17:14:46] <radio`> cool
[17:14:54] <yngwin> and there is also #gentoo-dev-help
[17:15:30] <yngwin> ok, we'll set up a wiki page under http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Qt/
[17:15:32] <pesa> the signed commits stuff is gentoo-wide, not qt specific, so...is there any general documentation about it?
[17:15:41] <yngwin> should be in the devmanual
[17:15:52] <pesa> ok so just link to it
[17:16:00] <yngwin> but new recommendations only on dev ml so far, i dont think they have been added yet
[17:16:02] <pesa> and if it's not enough improve the devmanual
[17:16:07] <yngwin> yep
[17:16:10] <pesa> :)
[17:16:16] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, yeah, i think that wiki is good start. By the way - is this namespace protected?
[17:16:33] <yngwin> but i'll link to everything needed from our wiki page
[17:16:46] <yngwin> Pinkbyte: yes, project space is editable for devs only
[17:16:57] <pesa> what? the wiki?
[17:16:57] <yngwin> and you need to be manually added by a3li
[17:18:01] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, i have already added, just want to clarify things about, well, more stricter permissions(per-project protections, etc). If they are not exists - everything is fine, i have access
[17:18:26] <yngwin> no, there are no per-project groups, just a developers group
[17:19:10] <pesa> right
[17:19:22] <yngwin> ok
[17:19:27] <yngwin> anything else here?
[17:19:35] <pesa> yes
[17:19:42] <pesa> what are you going to work on_
[17:19:44] <pesa> *?
[17:20:01] <yngwin> ah yes
[17:20:09] <pesa> any specific package?
[17:20:12] <yngwin> radio` has an interest in pyside
[17:20:36] <pesa> good, that's very low maintenance anyway
[17:21:20] <pesa> upstream looks almost dead
[17:21:22] <yngwin> and once he gets familiar with the way we work, i'm sure he will "adopt" other packages
[17:21:50] <yngwin> Pinkbyte: do you have any specific interests wrt our herd?
[17:22:35] <Pinkbyte> Well, personally i have interested in Psi(damn, it should be bumped long time ago). I can say that i am not good in Qt packages itself, so do not rely on me in dev-qt/qt* bugs at first, please.
[17:22:56] <yngwin> no problem
[17:23:02] <pesa> no worries, qt itself is a nasty beast
[17:23:21] <pesa> but qt-based pkgs are fairly easy actually
[17:23:22] <yngwin> i also leave the qt packages to pesa and kensington, who do most of the work there
[17:23:33] <yngwin> once in a while i'll do a bump or something
[17:23:53] <yngwin> but yes, we have many qt based applications now, and can use help there
[17:24:01] <yngwin> those are usually easy to take care of
[17:24:35] <Pinkbyte> yeah, usually qt-based packages are not a problem. I am also maintaining couple of them
[17:24:44] <Pinkbyte> s/also/already/
[17:25:05] <pesa> cool
[17:25:50] <yngwin> ok, shall we move on?
[17:26:00] <pesa> yep
[17:26:05] <yngwin> 2. Qt5 progress
[17:26:05] <yngwin> When can we move ebuilds (masked) to tree? What is still needed?
[17:26:27] <pesa> a whole lot of stuff
[17:26:52] <pesa> first of all, splitting some apps from existing qt4 ebuilds
[17:28:13] <pesa> then, a few qt5 important modules are still missing
[17:28:36] <yngwin> ok
[17:28:51] <Pinkbyte> qt5 tracker bug lists 6 dependant bugs, so i think that it would not be so easy :-/
[17:28:55] <yngwin> and you want to keep development in the overlay, for the time being?
[17:28:56] <pesa> and I need to fix bug 451456
[17:28:57] <willikins> pesa: https://bugs.gentoo.org/451456 "[qt overlay] Qt5 packages try to link against already installed versions during recompilation"; Gentoo Linux, Library; UNCO; eugene.shalygin:qt
[17:29:11] <pesa> yngwin: yes definitely
[17:29:25] <pesa> there's no rush to move 5.0 to the tree, 5.1 is really the first "serious" release anyway
[17:29:37] <yngwin> ok, when is that expected?
[17:30:03] <pesa> may{,be}?
[17:30:08] <pesa> lol
[17:30:11] <yngwin> hehe
[17:30:14] <pesa> I don't remember
[17:30:20] <yngwin> fair enough
[17:30:30] <pesa> branching is March 15th iirc
[17:30:54] <pesa> then I think at least 1 month of stabilization period
[17:32:24] <yngwin> "Maintenance releases expected to come in a regular 6 month cycle"
[17:32:28] <yngwin> so that would be June
[17:32:46] <yngwin> since 5.0 was released in Dec
[17:32:49] <pesa> yeah
[17:32:59] <yngwin> http://qt-project.org/wiki/Qt_5.0
[17:33:00] <pesa> ok we have more time then :)
[17:33:09] <yngwin> good
[17:33:17] <yngwin> let's target 5.1 for inclusion in portage
[17:33:25] <pesa> kde5 will be based on (at least) 5.1
[17:33:26] <pesa> yes
[17:33:46] <yngwin> i'm sure there will be some apps getting qt5 support by then
[17:34:15] <pesa> qt-creator already has some support
[17:34:46] <yngwin> and quassel
[17:34:58] <yngwin> ok
[17:35:11] <yngwin> anything else here?
[17:35:15] <Pinkbyte> just FYI - leechcraft already has initial support for Qt5
[17:35:25] <Pinkbyte> not really sure hot 'initial' it is
[17:35:31] <Pinkbyte> s/hot/how/
[17:35:52] <yngwin> yes, porting from qt4 to qt5 seems fairly easy
[17:36:04] <yngwin> but distro support is still lacking
[17:36:34] <yngwin> ok ,let's go to our next point
[17:36:40] <yngwin> 3. Overlay mirror
[17:36:40] <yngwin> Use github (under Gentoo project) instead of gitorious as secondary qt overlay repo. This also means we need to move the wikipages from gitorious to wiki.gentoo.org.
[17:37:16] <yngwin> we now push overlay commits to both git.overlays.gentoo.org and gitorious
[17:37:17] <pesa> meh
[17:37:27] <pesa> github++
[17:37:31] <Pinkbyte> +1 for that. IMHO, issue system in github rocks, we should utilize it
[17:37:43] <yngwin> we could use github as primary
[17:37:46] <pesa> no, we have bugzilla
[17:38:07] <pesa> I prefer github just for the web interface
[17:38:13] <yngwin> the 1 thing i want from github is easy pull requests
[17:38:18] <pesa> and it could increase visibility
[17:38:22] <yngwin> yes
[17:38:25] <Pinkbyte> pesa, yeah, i know, but pull requests is also nice. Look at science overlay - they accept contributions from users through pull requests
[17:38:38] <Pinkbyte> not all, of course
[17:38:45] <pesa> that too
[17:38:51] <pesa> but not issues please
[17:39:07] <pesa> we must disable that part
[17:39:10] <yngwin> we already use our bugzilla for that
[17:39:11] <Pinkbyte> ok, turning off just issue(and not pull requests) is not a big deal
[17:39:20] <pesa> ok awesome then
[17:39:43] <yngwin> so github as primary repo for the qt overlay then?
[17:40:40] <pesa> primary would still be gogo right?
[17:40:46] <Pinkbyte> primary? hm... i would said no. I think primary should be on *.gentoo.org
[17:41:17] <yngwin> ok secondary then
[17:41:38] <pesa> yes
[17:42:09] <yngwin> ok
[17:42:10] <Pinkbyte> just a little offtopic - who is admin of gentoo account on github? Somebody from infra?
[17:42:26] <pesa> dunno
[17:42:43] <yngwin> yes, afaik
[17:42:46] <Pinkbyte> ok, will ask infra about that
[17:42:52] <yngwin> 4. Remaining TODO items from last time
[17:42:59] <yngwin> those seem to be all mine :(
[17:43:09] <pesa> lol
[17:43:27] <yngwin> my excuse it that i was on holiday and then too busy because the new semester started here
[17:43:36] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, well, i can help with Psi, but not too much
[17:43:38] <yngwin> anyway, all quite low priority items
[17:43:45] <yngwin> Pinkbyte: please do
[17:43:51] <Pinkbyte> there are some ebuild for _pre in rion overlays, that needs some love
[17:43:53] <pesa> Pinkbyte: go ahead please
[17:43:57] <yngwin> i am even tempted to mask psi for treecleaning
[17:44:15] <yngwin> since nobody seems to be bothered
[17:44:19] <Pinkbyte> i will ask about it guys from gentoo.ru - they are polishing these ebuild as strong as they can
[17:44:28] <pesa> yeah
[17:44:44] <yngwin> also it seems psi is the only remaining consumer of qconf
[17:44:56] <pesa> qconf sucks
[17:45:10] <pesa> it should be killed with fire
[17:45:12] <yngwin> i'd like to get rid of qconf
[17:46:09] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, i will ask authors of Psi+ about it. It seems that it's needed only for building net-im/psi[extras]
[17:46:14] <yngwin> ok
[17:46:26] <pesa> Pinkbyte: right
[17:46:39] <pesa> I use -extras abd don't have qconf
[17:46:44] <pesa> *and
[17:47:07] <yngwin> i propose we see what happens this month, and otherwise mask psi and qconf for treecleaning on April 1st :)
[17:47:30] <Pinkbyte> that would be not good joke at all
[17:47:39] <pesa> I'm opposed
[17:47:43] <yngwin> if i can find the time i will have a look at the ebuild myself
[17:47:44] <Pinkbyte> many users, well, literally will 'shit bricks'
[17:47:47] <pesa> what is the reason?
[17:47:57] <yngwin> broken with gcc 4.7
[17:48:13] <yngwin> no one interested in getting an ebuild for the update into portage
[17:48:35] <pesa> 1st: not good enough
[17:48:57] <pesa> 2nd: not a valid argument, we should treeclean half of the tree if it was
[17:49:30] <yngwin> someone needs to step up and maintain it, thats all
[17:50:03] <yngwin> and i already have taken on too many packages
[17:50:21] <radio`> is there anything i can do for it?
[17:50:38] <pesa> yngwin: so just ignore it
[17:51:08] <yngwin> see if you can find some up to date ebuild for 0.15, and see if that is usable
[17:51:24] <yngwin> probably need to contact the guys in the bug, rion and so on
[17:52:19] <radio`> bugzilla?
[17:52:35] <Pinkbyte> people from gentoo.ru said that gcc 4.7 failure was fixed in 0.14-r4 by maksbotan, but i am not checked yet, so i do not know
[17:52:51] <yngwin> https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=410911
[17:53:01] <radio`> ok
[17:53:47] <yngwin> if you find something that seems to work, contact me next thurs/fri/sat, and i'll see if we can bump this then
[17:54:13] <pesa> I think you can leave USE=extras out at first
[17:54:26] <pesa> if it makes bunping harder
[17:54:35] <pesa> bumping*
[17:55:22] <yngwin> ok, wrt the elog messages, i just need to make some time and do that
[17:55:42] <yngwin> the eclass is at the bottom of my todo list
[17:56:20] <yngwin> so lets move on to 5. Open bugs
[17:56:30] <yngwin> See http://tiny.cc/qtbugs
[17:56:37] <pesa> :(
[17:56:52] <yngwin> Bug 457050 - Drop sparc?
[17:56:54] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/457050 "dev-qt/qtgui fails to compile on sparc: internal compiler error: segmentation fault"; Gentoo Linux, Core system; CONF; ago:toolchain
[17:56:55] <pesa> yeah
[17:57:04] <pesa> I just contacted ago about the sparc issues
[17:57:09] <yngwin> we havent heard from toolchain yet
[17:57:12] <pesa> PyQt4 fails too
[17:57:12] <yngwin> ok
[17:57:37] <yngwin> i'm happy with dropping sparc, but what do the arch team members say?
[17:57:47] <pesa> and he told me that gcc itself doesn't build :O
[17:58:01] <yngwin> last time i threatened to do that, they suddenly sprang into action
[17:58:11] <pesa> so sparc seems really fucked up
[17:59:04] <yngwin> i'd like to hear what the sparc team thinks about it
[17:59:19] <pesa> me too
[17:59:40] <yngwin> ok
[17:59:59] <pesa> and set a deadline coz we have a vulnerable version in tree right now
[18:00:07] <yngwin> we do?
[18:00:43] <yngwin> well, just set a deadline then and let them handle it
[18:01:28] <pesa> yes we do
[18:01:50] <yngwin> ah yeah, i see
[18:02:37] <yngwin> what deadline do you propose?
[18:03:14] <pesa> dunno... 2 weeks?
[18:03:21] <pesa> 30 days?
[18:03:55] <yngwin> how severe is the issue?
[18:04:25] <pesa> medium iirc
[18:05:12] <pesa> no
[18:05:16] <pesa> https://secunia.com/advisories/52040/
[18:05:41] <yngwin> they already had 4 weeks
[18:06:32] <yngwin> i'd say give them 2 more weeks
[18:07:05] <pesa> fine with me
[18:07:47] <yngwin> how about bug 433944
[18:07:49] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/433944 "dev-python/PyQt4 does not install phonon-module"; Gentoo Linux, KDE; UNCO; alpine.art.de:qt
[18:08:08] <yngwin> i dont see how this is our issue
[18:08:18] <pesa> heh
[18:08:26] <pesa> everybody is saying that :)
[18:08:32] <yngwin> upstream doesnt want to "fix"
[18:08:36] <pesa> so it's nobody's issue
[18:09:32] <pesa> meh I hate upstreams
[18:09:59] <yngwin> well, the patch is fairly minor
[18:10:14] <Pinkbyte> pesa: you should hate only dumb-headed upstream :-)
[18:10:19] <yngwin> i dont see how it would hurt to apply it, if it fixed the issue
[18:11:01] <pesa> yngwin: agreed
[18:11:10] <yngwin> ok
[18:11:18] <pesa> I can do that
[18:11:45] <pesa> just write it on the meeting minutes or I'll forget
[18:11:59] <yngwin> yes i will
[18:12:03] <yngwin> then bug 447368
[18:12:05] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/447368 "qt4-build.eclass - cpu autodetection and cpu specific flags"; Gentoo Linux, Eclasses and Profiles; UNCO; q:qt
[18:12:36] <pesa> ty
[18:12:43] <pesa> ah right
[18:12:56] <yngwin> still seems to fail sometimes?
[18:13:19] <pesa> I need to investigate
[18:13:28] <pesa> I don't believe the reporter
[18:13:45] <yngwin> ok
[18:14:06] <pesa> he links to a funtoo bug, who know what kind of shit they might be doing?
[18:14:45] <yngwin> dont like downstreams either eh
[18:14:56] <pesa> rotfl
[18:16:56] <yngwin> any other open bugs we should discuss?
[18:17:23] <pesa> also
[18:17:29] <pesa> upstream bug is full of shit
[18:17:39] <pesa> they don't understand what qt configure is detecting
[18:17:48] <pesa> err
[18:17:52] <pesa> downstream I mean
[18:18:08] <pesa> but anyway, I'll look into it with lowest priority
[18:18:12] <yngwin> ok
[18:18:21] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, well, maybe bug 460886, but i was reported it only hour ago(although discovered this issue yesterday), so i am not sure
[18:18:23] <willikins> Pinkbyte: https://bugs.gentoo.org/460886 "dev-qt/qthelp-4.8.4 failed to configure: /usr/bin/xargs: sed: Argument list too long"; Gentoo Linux, Development; CONF; pinkbyte:qt
[18:18:29] <pesa> ahaha
[18:18:32] <pesa> that one is funny
[18:18:56] <pesa> we already use xargs, which is supposed to fix those "argument list too long" issues
[18:19:04] <Pinkbyte> :-)
[18:19:05] <pesa> so... wtf?
[18:19:18] <Pinkbyte> argument list is too long for xargs? :-)
[18:19:28] <Pinkbyte> and "we need to go deeper" (c)
[18:19:42] <pesa> that would point to an xargs bug
[18:20:28] <pesa> ideas?
[18:21:08] <yngwin> another drink
[18:21:40] <pesa> that's a good idea
[18:21:49] <yngwin> see
[18:22:15] <Pinkbyte> pesa, man xargs says about two xargs invokations instead of one in particular cases
[18:22:24] <Pinkbyte> do not sure if it is relevant to our case
[18:22:24] <pesa> o.O
[18:22:32] <Pinkbyte> somecommand | xargs -s 50000 echo | xargs -I '{}' -s 100000 rm '{}'
[18:22:33] <pesa> well can you try that?
[18:23:14] <pesa> also, is it reproducible on other arches?
[18:25:10] -*- pesa tries on amd64
[18:25:38] <Pinkbyte> pesa, i do not check with those flags on amd64
[18:27:18] -*- pesa cannot reproduce
[18:28:46] <yngwin> ok, anything else?
[18:29:52] <yngwin> then 6. Open floor
[18:30:12] <yngwin> post-mortem thought about dev-qt move?
[18:30:47] <pesa> nice job I'd say, only a minor issue with qthelp afaik
[18:31:18] <pesa> and repoman is slow :P
[18:31:28] <yngwin> cvs is slow
[18:31:35] <yngwin> but yeah
[18:31:45] <yngwin> repoman is a bit slow too
[18:31:57] <pesa> well repoman adds a lot of overhead with checking profiles, dependencies and so on
[18:32:01] <yngwin> but working with cvs is a disaster for jobs like this
[18:32:05] <pesa> true
[18:33:03] <pesa> oh another thing, hwoarang's script missed 3 packages that needed changes to deps
[18:33:31] <yngwin> how so
[18:33:37] <pesa> because those packages already had broken deps on some arches (prior to our changes)
[18:33:49] <yngwin> haha
[18:33:50] <pesa> so repoman choked on them
[18:34:10] <yngwin> yeah i wonder how that happens
[18:34:12] <pesa> lesson for next time: use the --force, luke
[18:34:24] <pesa> (if normal mode fails)
[18:34:24] <yngwin> ;)
[18:34:30] <yngwin> good
[18:34:34] <yngwin> anything else?
[18:34:38] <pesa> yeah
[18:34:49] <pesa> thanks a lot to everyone involved
[18:34:58] <yngwin> indeed!
[18:35:19] <pesa> and crap, I accidentally dropped a bag of pistachios all over the floor :/
[18:35:24] <radio`> :(
[18:35:49] <yngwin> hm, now i get to decide what to eat for dinner
[18:36:01] <Pinkbyte> about dev-qt/ move
[18:36:05] <yngwin> yes?
[18:36:13] <Pinkbyte> some guys on forums complains about broken deps even without overlays
[18:36:16] <Pinkbyte> how that's possible?
[18:36:25] <Pinkbyte> infra stops rsync, iirc
[18:36:26] <pesa> that's false
[18:36:33] <pesa> yeah indeed
[18:36:33] <yngwin> that shouldnt be possible
[18:36:46] <Pinkbyte> i have no such issue at all(well i have, but only with my own overlay :-))
[18:36:53] <yngwin> if there really is a problem, they should just file a bug
[18:37:09] <pesa> as a matter of fact, no bugs were filed
[18:37:37] <yngwin> but yeah, esp users of kde overlay ran into some problems
[18:37:37] <Pinkbyte> yngwin, i said that too, but they prefer to complain to me directly(i am saying about russian forums) :-/
[18:38:04] <Pinkbyte> why do all these users do not want to file bugs??? :'-(
[18:38:20] <yngwin> dunno
[18:38:25] <yngwin> but just ignore them then
[18:38:32] <yngwin> if they're just venting...
[18:38:46] <yngwin> file bug report || shut up
[18:38:53] <yngwin> :)
[18:38:54] <pesa> :)
[18:38:59] <yngwin> i'm so charming
[18:44:31] <yngwin> meeting over