[20:59:26] <ayoy> hai
[21:01:58] <ABCD> is it that time again?
[21:02:27] <ayoy> it seems so
[21:03:10] *** Joins: spatz (~spatz@gentoo/developer/spatz)
[21:04:04] <spatz> qt meeting :D
[21:04:24] <ayoy> yeah, let's meet ;)
[21:04:33] *** Joins: yngwin (~yngwin@gentoo/developer/yngwin)
[21:04:41] *** Joins: jmrk_ (~jmrk@dslb-088-064-088-198.pools.arcor-ip.net)
[21:04:54] <spatz> so who's here?
[21:05:07] * ayoy is here
[21:05:11] * ABCD is here
[21:05:31] * yngwin 
[21:06:08] <spatz> so yngwin and hwoarang too
[21:06:11] * reavertm just watching men at work
[21:06:20] <spatz> where's wired and tampakrap?
[21:06:23] <hwoarang> im here
[21:06:25] <yngwin> !herd qt
[21:06:27] <willikins> (qt) abcd, ayoy, hwoarang, spatz, tampakrap, wired, yngwin
[21:06:30] *** Joins: far_jump (~wizard@pool-71-252-110-24.washdc.east.verizon.net)
[21:06:43] <yngwin> tampakrap is absent as announced
[21:07:08] <yngwin> so just wired and pesa 
[21:07:16] <spatz> ah, pesa, right
[21:07:32] *** Joins: Vtester (~loukas@ppp079166118025.dsl.hol.gr)
[21:07:34] <yngwin> agenda is at http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Meeting20100218
[21:08:31] *** scarabeus sets mode: +o yngwin
[21:08:38] <yngwin> ok, others will show up later i hope
[21:08:39] <hwoarang> sweet
[21:08:46] <yngwin> let's get started
[21:09:01] *** Quits: Vtester (~loukas@ppp079166118025.dsl.hol.gr) (Client Quit)
[21:09:02] <wired> oioi
[21:09:09] <wired> when did it get to 9pm
[21:09:12] <wired> stupid time :P
[21:09:14] *** yngwin changes topic to 'Gentoo Qt team meeting now |'
[21:09:16] <spatz> date -u
[21:09:16] <wired> im here :)
[21:09:27] *** yngwin changes topic to 'Gentoo Qt team meeting now | agenda: http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Meeting20100218'
[21:09:35] *** Joins: Vtester (~loukas@ppp079166118025.dsl.hol.gr)
[21:09:43] <hwoarang> nice
[21:09:45] <yngwin> wired: you logging?
[21:09:48] <wired> yeap
[21:09:58] <yngwin> good, let's get started
[21:10:01] <yngwin> 1. raster on by default?
[21:10:11] <wired> i hear kde is still a bit glitchy
[21:10:14] <wired> w/ raster
[21:10:25] <yngwin> works fine here, but reavertm reported glitches
[21:10:28] <spatz> is this about turning it on by default in the tree or the overlay?
[21:10:30] <ABCD> I haven't tried it in a while
[21:10:35] <yngwin> spatz: tree
[21:10:49] <reavertm> not glitches, crashes
[21:10:51] <hwoarang> I would say to wait for 4.7
[21:10:57] <reavertm> but quite infrequent
[21:11:08] <wired> i haven't tested it so i can't have a personal preference, but after talking with reavertm, maybe 4.7 is a better target
[21:11:10] <yngwin> ok, i agree with hwoarang
[21:11:12] <spatz> works great on three machines I've checked, but they're all nvidia so I don't know if it's representative
[21:11:15] <ayoy> still it seems like we should wait
[21:11:28] *** Quits: Vtester (~loukas@ppp079166118025.dsl.hol.gr) (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[21:11:31] <spatz> maybe turn it on by default for all the overlay ebuilds
[21:11:37] <yngwin> seems we agree, let's wait and re-evaluate when 4.7 is released
[21:11:49] <wired> breaking the overlay would be interesting
[21:11:50] <hwoarang> is there warning still present on live ebuilds?
[21:11:50] <wired> :p
[21:11:55] <reavertm> you know, kde guys tend to abuse every api they put their hands on, so...
[21:12:01] <hwoarang> i dont mind playing around with live ebuilds
[21:12:11] <yngwin> there should be no warning about raster, just useflag description
[21:12:21] <hwoarang> as long as we use a warning message to let users know about this 
[21:12:38] <yngwin> in live ebuilds? we could do that
[21:12:48] <hwoarang> if we agree to enable that use flag by default, i would like to use a way to inform the users
[21:12:56] <hwoarang> otherwise they might not notice it
[21:12:56] *** Joins: ssuominen (~ssuominen@gentoo/developer/ssuominen)
[21:13:04] <wired> oh they'll notice
[21:13:09] <hwoarang> i wouldnt
[21:13:16] <hwoarang> since i blindly build the live packages every day
[21:13:31] <wired> you wouldn't notice a sudden 12ebuild USE change?...
[21:13:33] <yngwin> yes, i agree we should inform them, also because we want feedback
[21:13:43] <hwoarang> ^
[21:13:54] <spatz> only qt-gui would change
[21:14:03] <hwoarang> whatever
[21:14:03] <hwoarang> :)
[21:14:09] <wired> spatz: right, i was thinking exceptions-style :P
[21:14:17] <yngwin> maybe an einfo "Raster is turned on by default in live ebuilds, please let us know if you have any problems"
[21:14:18] *** Joins: Vtester (~loukas@ppp079166118025.dsl.hol.gr)
[21:14:23] <hwoarang> sure !
[21:14:28] <wired> yngwin: sounds good
[21:14:32] <yngwin> ok
[21:14:55] <yngwin> i'm planning to start using live trunk now until we have 4.7 pre-release
[21:15:03] <hwoarang> scary!
[21:15:11] <ABCD> yngwin: I would suggest an elog instead of an einfo :)
[21:15:12] <wired> its been a while since i last used a trunk version
[21:15:14] <yngwin> 4.7 went into feature freeze today
[21:15:22] <yngwin> ABCD: yes, that's better
[21:15:24] <wired> but i now have chroots so i can do that toot :)
[21:15:25] <wired> too*
[21:15:40] <hwoarang> we should redistribute the live packages again at some point
[21:15:48] <hwoarang> i doubt that all of them get tested
[21:16:07] <yngwin> hmm, how would you redistribute em?
[21:16:10] <wired> they probably aren't but they are live ebuilds
[21:16:20] <wired> even if they occasionally break i don't see any harm done
[21:16:27] <hwoarang> yngwin: i mean that you should take the 4.9999 one, me the 4.6.9999 etc
[21:16:36] <yngwin> ah ok
[21:16:56] <wired> hwoarang: we can do this over mail like last time
[21:17:00] <hwoarang> just to make sure that all of them are in a good shape and that we have at least one pc that uses every version
[21:17:02] <yngwin> well, i can take on 4.9999 for now, until 4.7 is branched
[21:17:23] <hwoarang> wired: i think we should write this down since I always forget who maintains what
[21:17:38] <hwoarang> wiki seems a good place to me
[21:17:50] <yngwin> indeed
[21:18:03] <hwoarang> we will take about this over mail 
[21:18:03] <yngwin> let's put it in the wiki
[21:18:08] <hwoarang> or
[21:18:15] <hwoarang> we can edit the wiki ourselves
[21:18:24] <yngwin> ok, shall we move to point 2?
[21:18:27] <hwoarang> sure
[21:18:31] <wired> devs testing ebuilds can just add themselves on the wiki
[21:18:33] <wired> :)
[21:18:40] <yngwin> exactly
[21:18:43] <yngwin> 2. gentoo-qt irc channel
[21:18:43] <hwoarang> yes that is better
[21:19:06] <yngwin> we spoke about this already, and i think most of us agree to use #gentoo-qt as our devroom
[21:19:11] <wired> +1
[21:19:12] <ayoy> yes yes yes!
[21:19:21] <hwoarang> ofc
[21:19:21] <wired> if anyone drops by we can help them as well
[21:19:27] <ayoy> it's so nice over here, so calm and quiet :)
[21:19:29] <reavertm> ayoy: you're not funny! :P
[21:19:29] <wired> but i like how its pure Qt talk
[21:19:31] <spatz> better to direct them to #-kde
[21:19:40] <wired> or if you prefer
[21:19:42] <yngwin> but user support is still prefered to go to -desktop or -kde
[21:19:43] <wired> pure Qute talk
[21:19:43] <ayoy> reavertm: I'm just feeling safe over there :P
[21:19:44] <wired> :P
[21:20:01] <yngwin> :)
[21:20:05] <hwoarang> yngwin: if this is the case, why are we using this channel?
[21:20:08] <hwoarang> just for dev talk?
[21:20:12] <wired> ...
[21:20:19] <spatz> hwoarang: to not make a mess of #-kde
[21:20:26] <yngwin> which channel?
[21:20:30] <hwoarang> this one
[21:20:31] <spatz> but there's no reason to have a million support channels, one is enough
[21:20:37] <hwoarang> which one
[21:20:38] <reavertm> I don't think you can provent mess on -kde
[21:20:42] *** Parts: Vtester (~loukas@ppp079166118025.dsl.hol.gr)
[21:20:42] <reavertm> pre*
[21:20:48] <yngwin> this one is for gentoo meetings, it's more generic
[21:20:50] <hwoarang> you stated above that you will redirect them on -kde or desktop
[21:20:51] <spatz> de-mess #-kde :)
[21:20:54] <hwoarang> sorry
[21:20:55] <hwoarang> the -qt
[21:20:58] <wired> for dev talk!
[21:21:02] <hwoarang> ok
[21:21:08] <yngwin> #-qt is for dev talk
[21:21:13] <hwoarang> gotcha
[21:21:29] <reavertm> I don't think you need one, there's no gentoo-gtk channel after all
[21:21:34] <yngwin> as #-kde can get quite busy 
[21:21:35] <hwoarang> :P
[21:21:39] <wired> reavertm: we actually use it
[21:21:50] <wired> reavertm: and we like how quiet it is
[21:21:51] <wired> :P
[21:21:57] <yngwin> we generate more discussion than the gnome team
[21:21:59] <reavertm> so why debating his topic?
[21:22:02] <ayoy> plus Qt and surroundings is growing
[21:22:22] <yngwin> we debate it because it wasnt official before
[21:22:31] <yngwin> it has grown this way in recent months
[21:23:08] <yngwin> alright
[21:23:17] <yngwin> 3. qt:3 removal
[21:23:34] <yngwin> the big mask is scheduled for this sunday
[21:23:58] <yngwin> it looks like we are mostly on track
[21:24:06] <yngwin> except for mythtv
[21:24:29] <yngwin> ssuominen, scarabeus: does QA have anything to say about this?
[21:25:13] <hwoarang> any bug # for mythtv?
[21:25:48] <yngwin> yes bug 299222
[21:25:50] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/299222 "Please mark media-tv/mythtv-0.22-p23069 stable"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; rich0@g.o:cardoe@g.o
[21:26:37] <yngwin> basically someone who knows mythtv should write a news item pointing to instructions on database upgrade issues
[21:27:03] <ssuominen> i'd like to see gambas bumped without USE="qt3", wpa_supplicant cleaned up (the versions with still USE="qt3" removed) and then there is mythtv...
[21:27:03] <hwoarang> i doubt that we can sort this out till sunday
[21:27:25] <ssuominen> and avoid all the use.masking of qt3 flag as unnecessary
[21:27:52] <yngwin> ssuominen: we will just mask the qt3 useflag, so that should not generate problems afaik, but mythtv is a bigger issue
[21:28:15] <ssuominen> if gambas and wpa_supplicant is handled, the use.masking is unnecessary
[21:28:30] <ssuominen> and kde-sunset users don't get screwed :)
[21:28:38] <yngwin> hmm
[21:28:59] <yngwin> i was planning on getting some files ready for sunset users anyway
[21:30:06] <yngwin> so what's the plan for mythtv?
[21:30:28] <yngwin> the maintainer has said he has no time to write a news item
[21:30:53] <hwoarang> silense
[21:30:54] <hwoarang> :P
[21:31:01] <yngwin> he would even be okay with just marking the new version stable
[21:31:51] <wired> that would take some time, no?
[21:32:20] <yngwin> its just 3 arches
[21:32:38] <yngwin> i think it could be done in a week
[21:32:55] <yngwin> IF, and thats a big IF, someone can take care of the news item first
[21:33:22] <wired> well someone has to try new mythtv first, has anyone done that?
[21:33:30] <yngwin> yes plenty
[21:33:53] <wired> so write the news item! :P
[21:34:23] <yngwin> i havent and i dont know which instructions are the right ones
[21:34:33] <wired> ah 
[21:34:37] <wired> i thought _you_ had
[21:34:37] <yngwin> all i can do is refer ppl to the comments on the bug
[21:34:50] <yngwin> no then it would already be taken care of
[21:35:05] <wired> right
[21:35:13] <yngwin> i know that ppl have, as can be seen in the comments on the bug
[21:35:16] <wired> so we _must_ take care of it to remove qt3...
[21:35:33] <yngwin> "I HIGHLY recommend publishing a HOWTO or a news item regarding the utf8 issues,
[21:35:33] <yngwin> unless they no longer exist.  Otherwise everybody who just does an emerge -u
[21:35:33] <yngwin> world is going to end up with a ruined mythtv database with no easy recovery
[21:35:33] <yngwin> path.  "
[21:36:09] <yngwin> "My understanding is that if you DON'T run the manual database fixes (which will
[21:36:09] <yngwin> be required for anybody who has been running stable on gentoo for more than a
[21:36:09] <yngwin> year or two), you end up with a mix of text encodings in the database, and that
[21:36:09] <yngwin> is pretty-much unrecoverable (without a lot of manual cleanup)."
[21:37:48] <yngwin> personally i see two choices: (1) leave qt:3 itself and mythtv unmask for a little longer, or (2) mask all of mythtv until this is sorted
[21:38:04] <hwoarang> meh
[21:38:06] <wired> mmm
[21:38:17] <wired> well we're stalling here
[21:38:42] <wired> maybe (1) is a better option for our users
[21:38:58] <yngwin> i prefer option 1, but then i want someone promising me this will be taken care of within say the next two weeks
[21:39:30] <spatz> !meta mythtv
[21:39:32] <willikins> spatz: Package: media-tv/mythtv Herd: mythtv Maintainer: cardoe@gentoo.org, (Maint-desc: Do not CC me on bugs)
[21:39:36] <yngwin> as things stand now, i consider mythtv maintainer-needed and that forces me to go  for option 2
[21:40:01] <spatz> !herd mythtv
[21:40:02] <willikins> spatz: (mythtv) beandog, cardoe, tanderson
[21:40:13] <spatz> maybe beandog or tanderson can do something?
[21:40:32] <hwoarang> doubtful
[21:40:51] <yngwin> beandog is still on pre-current stable
[21:41:03] <yngwin> tanderson could in principle
[21:41:43] <yngwin> i'll write an email to mythtv herd then and let them make the choice
[21:41:52] <hwoarang> ok
[21:42:01] <wired> we could... extend the qt mask for one week, open a forum item and/or bug about it requesting info on the upgrade path
[21:42:06] <wired> then just mask if noone cares enough
[21:42:40] <yngwin> the bug was opened almost two months ago, no one has cared so far
[21:42:48] <wired> i was hoping for users not devs
[21:43:07] <yngwin> yes, the only helpful feedback on the bug is from users
[21:43:26] <yngwin> but we could open a forum thread either way
[21:44:39] <spatz> so what's the decision, the masking is postponed in the mean time?
[21:44:54] <hwoarang> i 'd say so
[21:45:19] <yngwin> i'd say we go ahead unless we get positive feedback that mythtv will be fixed soon
[21:45:59] <yngwin> they have known this for 6 months now
[21:46:38] <spatz> they=cardoe?
[21:46:52] <yngwin> yes, and the other herd members
[21:47:05] <hwoarang> as you wish
[21:47:23] <hwoarang> at least tell them ( comment on the bug ) that there is a final deadline till sunday
[21:47:25] <spatz> I don't like screwing users over due to dev incompetence
[21:47:35] <hwoarang> actually, till tomorrow so the arch team can stabilize it ASAP
[21:47:39] <yngwin> i dont see the point of postponing if nobody is committing to fixing the situation
[21:47:48] <spatz> even if the news item is out in 3 mins they won't stabilize it until sunday
[21:47:53] <yngwin> it could take another 6 months
[21:47:58] <hwoarang> i can for amd64
[21:48:04] <hwoarang> and we can push the rest archers
[21:48:14] <yngwin> if the news item is organized, then i'd be willing to postpone
[21:48:39] <spatz> so let's start a forum thread and ask users for a mini migration guide
[21:48:49] <hwoarang> ok sounds fine
[21:48:55] <yngwin> fine with me
[21:49:30] <yngwin> ok, any other qt3 related issues?
[21:49:33] <hwoarang> no
[21:49:40] <hwoarang> none I can think of
[21:49:49] <spatz> any bugs open on what ssuominen mentioned, gambas and wca_supplicant?
[21:49:53] <yngwin> ssuominen mentioned gamabas and wpa_supp
[21:50:04] <yngwin> spatz: there must be
[21:50:31] <ssuominen> gambas: bug 301376 and bug 302136
[21:50:33] <willikins> ssuominen: https://bugs.gentoo.org/301376 "dev-util/gambas has optional dep on qt:3"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; yngwin@g.o:maintainer-needed@g.o
[21:50:46] <yngwin> and bug 302136
[21:50:48] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/302136 "dev-util/gambas-2.19.0 version bump"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; NEW; jer@g.o:maintainer-needed@g.o
[21:50:55] <yngwin> thanks willikins
[21:50:59] <spatz> bug 246932
[21:51:01] <willikins> spatz: https://bugs.gentoo.org/246932 "net-wireless/wpa_supplicant USE="qt3" removal"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; NEW; yagorbunov@mail.ru:mobile@g.o
[21:51:10] <hwoarang> !herd mobile
[21:51:11] <willikins> hwoarang: (mobile) betelgeuse, cardoe, genstef, peper, steev
[21:51:17] <hwoarang> ya right
[21:51:18] <hwoarang> :)
[21:51:25] <hwoarang> dead herd
[21:51:40] <hwoarang> i bet we can touch them without even notice it
[21:51:41] <ABCD> !meta -v net-wireless/wpa_supplicant
[21:51:42] <willikins> ABCD: Package: net-wireless/wpa_supplicant Herd: mobile Maintainer: gurligebis@gentoo.org
[21:51:43] <willikins> ABCD: (mobile) betelgeuse, cardoe, genstef, peper, steev
[21:51:44] <yngwin> i can look at gambas
[21:51:46] <wired> dont tell betelgeuse that :P
[21:52:04] <hwoarang> :P
[21:52:12] <hwoarang> i can ask and take care of wpa_supplicant
[21:52:20] <ssuominen> yngwin: I started working on gambas once, here's the ebuild: http://paste.pocoo.org/show/180222/
[21:52:32] <ssuominen> yngwin: gambas-2.19.0.ebuild
[21:52:39] <wired> i could also take care of wpa_sup
[21:52:39] <yngwin> ok
[21:52:41] <wired> i use that thing
[21:52:42] <wired> :p
[21:52:48] <yngwin> great
[21:52:51] <ssuominen> yngwin: I gave up after it started running xdg-utils crap and give me SANDBOX violations
[21:53:00] <yngwin> i c
[21:53:06] <yngwin> well, i'll have a go
[21:53:09] <ssuominen> yngwin: patching them out needs eautoreconf, and eautoreconf needs those optional deps present
[21:53:19] <ssuominen> yngwin: kinda sucks ;p
[21:53:45] <yngwin> well, i'll play with it and see
[21:53:51] <hwoarang> nice
[21:54:06] <yngwin> as it's maintainer-needed we can mask it until someone is ready to pick it up
[21:54:37] <ssuominen> well it's really simple: if nobody here now cares about it, just add treecleaner@ to CC :P
[21:54:59] * hwoarang evil! :)
[21:55:15] <hwoarang> we are waiting just by the corner
[21:55:22] <ssuominen> ;)
[21:55:32] <yngwin> there's also bug 301382
[21:55:34] <willikins> https://bugs.gentoo.org/301382 "games-board/qgo removal"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; NEW; yngwin@g.o:games@g.o
[21:55:44] <ssuominen> oh yeah, trunk is qt4
[21:55:45] <yngwin> a qt4 snapshot version is possible there
[21:56:07] <yngwin> there is a live ebuild attached but it needs work
[21:56:12] <hwoarang> i will take care of it
[21:56:17] <yngwin> great
[21:56:26] <hwoarang> mask the current ebuild in the mean time
[21:57:11] <yngwin> then what we need is to prepare a package.mask file with all ebuilds that depend on qt:3, so we can drop that in when the time is ready
[21:57:26] <yngwin> that couls also be used as package.unmask for sunset users
[21:57:33] <hwoarang> indeed
[21:57:47] <hwoarang> we can work on this in overlay
[21:57:47] <yngwin> i propose we work on that in the overlay
[21:57:52] <hwoarang> ha :P
[21:57:54] <yngwin> :)
[21:57:59] <wired> lol
[21:58:08] <yngwin> !rdep qt
[21:58:09] <willikins> yngwin: Too many packages have reverse RDEPEND on x11-libs/qt, go to http://tinderbox.dev.gentoo.org/misc/rindex/x11-libs/qt instead.
[21:58:16] <yngwin> that is a good start ^
[21:58:38] <hwoarang> noted
[21:58:38] <yngwin> and then compare it to the bugs in the tracker
[21:58:49] <yngwin> so who is going to work on that?
[21:59:00] <hwoarang> i will
[21:59:08] <hwoarang> but it wont be my 1st priority
[21:59:11] <hwoarang> :/
[21:59:15] <yngwin> i will as well
[21:59:19] <hwoarang> ok
[21:59:23] <wired> hwoarang: i'll get wpa from you, so you'll have more time
[21:59:23] <wired> :p
[21:59:28] <yngwin> but i was hoping for some more cooperation
[21:59:36] <hwoarang> fine wired
[21:59:49] <hwoarang> yngwin: it doesnt matter since i will have some spare time these days
[21:59:56] <yngwin> ok
[22:00:11] <yngwin> and we'll stay in touch about this in #-qt
[22:00:22] <hwoarang> sure thing
[22:00:29] <yngwin> anything else about qt:3
[22:00:43] *** Joins: pesa (~Pesa@host37-125-dynamic.50-82-r.retail.telecomitalia.it)
[22:00:43] <yngwin> ok, then 4
[22:00:47] <yngwin> 4. qt 4.6.x stabilization
[22:00:49] <pesa> hey guys
[22:00:52] <pesa> sorry for the delay
[22:00:52] <hwoarang> hello there
[22:00:56] <yngwin> hi pesa
[22:00:56] <wired> hey pesa 
[22:00:57] <hwoarang> no prob !
[22:01:03] <wired> dont worry about it
[22:01:04] <wired> :)
[22:01:09] <yngwin> we're not done yet, so
[22:01:19] <pesa> there was a car accident :(
[22:01:22] <wired> oh
[22:01:24] <ayoy> :/
[22:01:25] <hwoarang> oops
[22:01:26] <wired> you ok?
[22:01:26] <pesa> i got trapped in the traffic jam
[22:01:31] <wired> ah
[22:01:32] <yngwin> i c
[22:01:32] <ayoy> oh, good you're ok
[22:01:35] <pesa> yeah i wasn't involved
[22:01:53] <hwoarang>  :)
[22:01:56] <yngwin> alright :)
[22:02:03] <wired> lets go to 4.
[22:02:17] <yngwin> about stabilization: 4.6.1 now, or wait ~2 weeks and go for 4.6.2?
[22:02:23] <hwoarang> 2
[22:02:28] <spatz> 2
[22:02:33] <wired> i stick to my original proposal, go for .2
[22:02:43] <ayoy> what are the issues with 4.6.1?
[22:03:02] <ayoy> apart from bugs on failed linking/compilation of qt-webkit and qt-gui
[22:03:08] <yngwin> nothing really
[22:03:10] <ayoy> which are probably invalid
[22:03:13] <ayoy> ;)
[22:03:22] <hwoarang> i would expect 4.6.2 to work better with Kde-4.4
[22:03:23] <pesa> those are binutils bug afaik
[22:03:24] <hwoarang> than 4.6.1
[22:03:29] <yngwin> no they are valid, but ppc only and being taken care of by toolchain
[22:03:48] <ayoy> yeah, I actually meant so
[22:03:49] <wired> we have .2 around, no serious bugs yet, lets get straight to that 
[22:03:54] <yngwin> hwoarang: yes but kde 4.4 is not going stable for the next few months
[22:03:54] <spatz> I think we can stabilize march 1st
[22:04:02] <wired> spatz: +1
[22:04:07] <hwoarang> ok
[22:04:23] <spatz> that's soon enough, imo
[22:04:27] <wired>  assuming nothing horrible pops up in the meantime
[22:04:32] <spatz> as always :)
[22:04:42] <hwoarang> i agree
[22:04:46] <yngwin> ok, it seems the consensus is to do 4.6.2 stablereq on march 1st
[22:04:48] <ayoy> no problem for me, just wondering what's wrong with .1
[22:04:55] <ayoy> :)
[22:04:55] <wired> ayoy: its OLD!
[22:04:57] <wired> :P
[22:05:03] <hwoarang> moving to 5?
[22:05:04] <ayoy> yeaaaah :D
[22:05:07] <ayoy> yup
[22:05:18] <wired> gogo
[22:05:18] <hwoarang> pesa: i need your opinion for 5
[22:05:19] <yngwin> 5. shall we keep resetting QMAKE_RPATH in eqmake4?
[22:05:19] <yngwin> It might cause problems for some apps that need an RPATH.
[22:05:29] <pesa> hwoarang: oh ok :P
[22:05:39] <hwoarang> do you remember when and why we added that?
[22:05:52] <pesa> since the beginning IIRC
[22:05:57] <ayoy> pesa: not really
[22:05:58] <hwoarang> indeed
[22:06:02] <ayoy> it's not present in qt4.eclass
[22:06:03] <hwoarang> it was there in 2/2/2009
[22:06:11] <ayoy> yyy?
[22:06:17] <hwoarang> i mean in qt4-edge
[22:06:26] <hwoarang> the first commit of qt4-edge has it
[22:06:30] <ayoy> yeah, I got it :)
[22:06:34] <hwoarang> but why/who addedit and why
[22:06:39] <hwoarang> i cant really recall
[22:06:42] <pesa> uhm
[22:06:48] <hwoarang> maybe it was in your very primary patches
[22:06:54] <pesa> maybe
[22:07:05] <ayoy> well, it's okay to remove fishy RPATHs and it's nice that our eclass does it
[22:07:06] <pesa> i remember there were a bug in older qmake
[22:07:11] <ayoy> but there are cases when RPATH is needed
[22:07:17] <ayoy> and it's valid
[22:07:26] <ayoy> and then we have bug 305445
[22:07:28] <willikins> https://bugs.gentoo.org/305445 "media-gfx/kst-2.0.0_beta2-r1 does not start"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; marco.dr@tiscali.it:ayoy@g.o
[22:07:30] <hwoarang> what if you added in the end of qmake command?
[22:07:32] <pesa> ancient qmake did set a wrong RPATH in most cases
[22:07:33] <hwoarang> *eqmake4
[22:07:37] <spatz> as ssuominen pointed out, portage takes care of unsafe RPATHs, so we don't need to worry about it
[22:07:47] <ayoy> hwoarang: I haven't tried it
[22:07:53] <ayoy> though it should fix the problem
[22:07:55] <hwoarang> spatz: afaik portage complains 
[22:08:04] <hwoarang> and throughs QA warnings
[22:08:09] <ayoy> my question is what behaviour we want as default?
[22:08:14] <spatz> which is good enough, imo
[22:08:16] <yngwin> can we test it in qt4-edge and drop it there
[22:08:17] <pesa> yeah portage complains and workarounds the problem
[22:08:21] <ayoy> I'd say that in most cases there are no insecure RPATHs
[22:08:36] <pesa> i think ayoy is right
[22:08:39] <ayoy> and if they are, why not add "QMAKE_RPATH=" to eqmake4 then
[22:08:49] <pesa> qmake was fixed to add correct runpaths i think
[22:08:51] <ayoy> or even provide a flag in qt4-r2.eclass
[22:08:58] <hwoarang> flag?
[22:09:04] <pesa> no need for a flag
[22:09:05] <ayoy> that would reset QMAKE_RPATH
[22:09:16] <ayoy> like you write an ebuild, and have insecure rpaths
[22:09:22] <ayoy> you set a flag and have them fixed
[22:09:27] <ayoy> thou it seems like an overkill
[22:09:28] <wired> we could override qt4-r2 for in overlay for testing, without the RPATH override, if all goes well we commit it
[22:09:29] <pesa> just call eqmake4 passing QMAKE_RPATH= from the affected ebuilds
[22:09:40] <ayoy> pesa++
[22:09:47] <hwoarang> well yes
[22:09:51] <spatz> wired: it's ok in qt4.eclass, no reason it won't work in qt4-r2
[22:10:00] <hwoarang> that would be the best since eqmake4 accepts parameters
[22:10:13] <ayoy> spatz++ :)
[22:10:13] <yngwin> ok, so let's drop it
[22:10:15] <spatz> so let's just remove it
[22:10:22] <ayoy> ok, I'm gonna do it
[22:10:30] <hwoarang> lets see how that will go
[22:10:35] <yngwin> alright
[22:10:38] <wired> :)
[22:10:41] <spatz> so 6?
[22:10:43] <pesa> is there a bug for that?
[22:10:44] <ssuominen> good
[22:10:46] <ayoy> yes please
[22:10:46] * ssuominen is happy
[22:10:55] * spatz is happy when ssuominen is happy
[22:11:06] * wired is happy because he's happy!
[22:11:07] <hwoarang> about 6
[22:11:11] <hwoarang> what the heck is that
[22:11:18] <yngwin> 6. Harmattan UI Application Framework (a.k.a. Maemo 6 or MeeGo) ebuilds
[22:11:24] <ayoy> guys, this is a mess
[22:11:32] <pesa> lol
[22:11:37] <yngwin> hwoarang: what we talked about before, the meego ui ebuilds
[22:11:47] <hwoarang> I asked on #meego
[22:11:48] <ayoy> anyhow, that's one of Nokia's proposals for QGraphicsView-based widget framewoerk
[22:11:50] <yngwin> i didnt know ayoy started this
[22:11:50] <hwoarang> there is no repo available
[22:11:53] <hwoarang> so what is that
[22:11:59] <spatz> why is there another overlay for that? looks like only 3 packages
[22:12:04] <ayoy> hwoarang: there is a repo available
[22:12:09] <hwoarang> for meego?
[22:12:11] <ayoy> and I've been working on this for 9 months now...
[22:12:12] <wired> ayoy: so with those ebuilds i can have meego?
[22:12:15] <yngwin> hwoarang: this is on nokia's repo
[22:12:25] <pesa> ayoy: oh nice :)
[22:12:25] <ayoy> wired: yes, but don't call it meego yet
[22:12:32] <ayoy> pesa: kthx :)
[22:12:36] <yngwin> this is their work on maemo 6, the successor of maemo 5 (in n900 now)
[22:12:45] <ayoy> this is the proposed Maemo 6 UI
[22:12:45] <hwoarang> ah
[22:12:47] <ayoy> based on Qt
[22:12:47] <hwoarang> maemo
[22:12:48] <hwoarang> ok
[22:12:51] <yngwin> maemo 6 is set to be marketed as meego 1.0
[22:12:51] <ayoy> and QGraphicsView
[22:12:57] <wired> ayoy: ok, (gj btw) so why isn't that in qting-edge? or in a "meego" overlay in layman? :P
[22:13:14] <hwoarang> yes, why having two overlays
[22:13:15] <ayoy> wired: because I wasn't sure if we want to add this
[22:13:17] <hwoarang> we can use a branch
[22:13:27] <pesa> no need to create yet another overlay imho
[22:13:29] <hwoarang> ofc we will have meego
[22:13:29] <wired> why branch
[22:13:30] <spatz> why wouldn't we want to add this? that's what overlays are for
[22:13:31] <wired> just merge them
[22:13:33] <ayoy> it's not about branching
[22:13:35] <ayoy> sure
[22:13:40] <wired> i don't see any conflicting ebuilds
[22:13:40] <wired> :)
[22:13:43] <hwoarang> wired: because we are gonna do some heavy work on this
[22:13:48] <wired> hwoarang: so?
[22:13:48] <ayoy> I didn't want to "publish" it so quickly
[22:13:54] <yngwin> i was planning to create ebuilds for the meego ui at some point and host them in qting-edge
[22:13:56] <ayoy> but I've asked today at work 
[22:14:07] <ayoy> and I got applause and acceptance :P
[22:14:16] <ayoy> so I'll transfer these ebuilds to qting-edge
[22:14:24] <hwoarang> wired: seems more appropriate to me
[22:14:26] <ayoy> and we're done with it
[22:14:30] <pesa> sweet
[22:14:41] <ayoy> if anyone is interested
[22:14:44] <hwoarang> to work on a separate branch before push it to master branch
[22:14:47] <ayoy> just emerge libdui
[22:14:51] <yngwin> i was thinking we may want a new category for this
[22:14:52] <pesa> do they use a custom build system?
[22:14:57] <ayoy> with demos USE (it's enabled by default)
[22:15:04] <ayoy> and runi widgetsgallery
[22:15:07] <ayoy> *run
[22:15:09] <ayoy> to see the demo :)
[22:15:11] <wired> hwoarang: qting-edge is already an overlay, branching will just make it messy
[22:15:14] <ayoy> pesa: no, it's qmake-based
[22:15:21] <wired> it won't be installed to user systems automatically :P
[22:15:25] <ayoy> yngwin: I was thinking the same
[22:15:25] <pesa> ayoy: i see
[22:15:32] <wired> lets just add it there, we can always mask it if it fails at some point
[22:15:40] <ayoy> yngwin: but for now there are 2 relevant packages only
[22:15:47] <yngwin> ok
[22:15:50] <ayoy> wired: it won't fail :)
[22:15:52] <spatz> it's just 3 packages, let's not get ahead of ourselves :)
[22:16:04] <yngwin> let's talk about the details in #-qt later
[22:16:07] <ayoy> one of them is irrelevant :P
[22:16:12] <ayoy> okay
[22:16:15] <wired> ayoy: im just saying... :)
[22:16:19] <ayoy> I'll commit them to qting-edge
[22:16:23] <yngwin> but we agree these are interesting and we want them in qting-edge
[22:16:27] <hwoarang> ofc
[22:16:58] <ayoy> however, one finding :)
[22:17:10] <wired> excellent
[22:17:11] <wired> :)
[22:17:14] <ayoy> meego, or Maemo 6 might be different
[22:17:15] <ayoy> :)
[22:17:21] <ayoy> as Nokia hasn't decided yet
[22:17:29] <ayoy> and they really have problems with it :)
[22:17:33] <spatz> let's move to 7?
[22:17:36] <ayoy> yup
[22:17:51] <yngwin> yes there will be a lot of work on meego still to come
[22:18:09] <yngwin> anyway
[22:18:14] <hwoarang> guys i have to leave now. you dont need my presence
[22:18:15] <yngwin> 7. other open bugs
[22:18:22] <yngwin> hwoarang: ok, thanks
[22:18:25] <hwoarang> i will read the backlong later about 7 
[22:18:26] <spatz> hwoarang: thanks, cya
[22:18:28] <hwoarang> :)
[22:18:30] <wired> hwoarang: ok, thanks for being here, ctya
[22:18:31] <ayoy> bai hwoarang
[22:18:32] <wired> cya
[22:18:33] * hwoarang laterz
[22:18:45] <pesa> hwoarang: thanks, cya ;)
[22:19:13] <yngwin> http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/PriorityBugs
[22:19:41] <wired> bug 292337
[22:19:42] <yngwin> did anybody work on any of these bugs?
[22:19:43] <willikins> wired: https://bugs.gentoo.org/292337 "x11-libs/qt-webkit-4.5.3 requires dbus or not?"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; REOP; tot-to@tot-to.com:qt@g.o
[22:19:45] <wired> i can actually test this now
[22:19:49] <wired> i'll do that
[22:19:50] <wired> :)
[22:20:05] <yngwin> ok
[22:21:02] <yngwin> did anybody test goldendict with gcc 4.4?
[22:21:35] <pesa> i didn't
[22:21:41] <yngwin> i guess not
[22:22:10] <pesa> i can do it though
[22:22:32] <yngwin> ayoy: you added the patch
[22:22:39] <pesa> well i can't move to portage :P
[22:22:47] <pesa> but i can review the ebuild
[22:22:59] <yngwin> ok plz do
[22:23:08] <ayoy> yngwin: really?
[22:23:18] <yngwin> 4 months ago it seems
[22:23:38] <yngwin> http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/qting-edge/commit/d56cfee40a63b0d827ebc303d55e2b799667c025
[22:23:47] <ayoy> ah true
[22:23:50] <ayoy> I was looking at the bug
[22:23:57] <ayoy> so I tested it
[22:24:02] <ayoy> half a year ago
[22:24:16] <yngwin> ok
[22:24:39] <yngwin> there's also the live ebuild that needs review
[22:25:04] <yngwin> so if pesa can do that, we can finally solve that bug
[22:25:11] <pesa> yeah ok
[22:25:33] <pesa> upstream suggest using a git version with qt >= 4.5.3 anyway
[22:25:39] <pesa> *suggests
[22:25:41] <yngwin> yes
[22:25:48] <yngwin> maybe we could make a snapshot
[22:26:04] <yngwin> i could take a look at that after the qt3 mask
[22:26:25] <pesa> ok, i'll do my reviews meanwhile
[22:26:30] <yngwin> and what about bug 300594
[22:26:32] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/300594 "QMAKESPEC for amd64: linux-g++-64 or linux-g++?"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; NEW; pva@g.o:qt@g.o
[22:26:56] <ayoy> yeah, it breaks multilib
[22:27:22] <pesa> native multilib you mean?
[22:27:54] <ayoy> I don't really know what "native" means here
[22:28:05] <pesa> sorry, i'd better read the description :P
[22:28:09] <ayoy> but I guess that it's adding -m64 everywhere to qt mkspecs
[22:29:18] <ayoy> or isn't it just about a libdir?
[22:29:28] <ayoy> i.e. lib vs lib64
[22:29:46] <pesa> i think so
[22:30:42] <ayoy> anyway, we're modifying mkspecs for Qt in qt-core ebuilds
[22:30:54] <ayoy> precisely, QMAKE_CFLAGS and QMAKE_CXXFLAGS
[22:30:55] <ayoy> iirc
[22:31:22] <pesa> so?
[22:31:32] <ayoy> so I don't really know if the bug is relevant
[22:31:50] <yngwin> can somebody just commit himself to finding out what is the correct solution?
[22:31:50] <ayoy> cause mkspecs defaults are somewhat ignored
[22:32:00] <ayoy> by CFLAGS from make.conf
[22:32:12] <ayoy> I can comment on the bug
[22:32:18] <ayoy> anyway, I can think about the solution
[22:32:24] <yngwin> ok
[22:32:33] <pesa> it's a bit of a mess TBH
[22:32:40] <ayoy> tru
[22:33:15] <yngwin> also bug 305001
[22:33:17] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/305001 "x11-libs/qt-core references /usr/X11R6 in mkspecs"; Gentoo Linux, Library; NEW; ohnobinki@ohnopublishing.net:qt@g.o
[22:33:28] <ayoy> oh :)
[22:33:44] <ayoy> this one is pretty straightforward thou
[22:33:57] <ayoy> I guess that the issue is that /usr/X11r^ is deprecated, right?
[22:34:03] <ayoy> */usr/X11R6
[22:34:04] <yngwin> yes
[22:34:06] <pesa> yep
[22:34:16] <ayoy> so just sed it out and be happy
[22:34:27] <pesa> coincidentally i noticed that just the day before the bug was reported :P
[22:34:32] <yngwin> so should be easy to fix, but somebody needs to do it
[22:34:43] <ayoy> I'll do it as well
[22:34:49] <yngwin> thanks
[22:35:53] <yngwin> anything else?
[22:35:57] <pesa> btw has anyone tested qt without X11 recently?
[22:36:12] <yngwin> not me
[22:36:26] <ayoy> there was a bug that got reopend, or resubmitted recently
[22:36:33] <ayoy> about qt-core depending on libX11
[22:36:37] <ayoy> pesa: do you mean this issue?
[22:36:43] <wired> i thought i fixed htat
[22:36:46] <pesa> i dunno
[22:36:47] <wired> i didn't?
[22:36:50] <ayoy> yeah, it got fixed
[22:37:08] <wired> it didn't "get fixed", i fixed it :P
[22:37:08] <pesa> i noticed a problem with PyQt4 which involves mkspecs
[22:37:19] <ayoy> wired: sry :P
[22:37:25] <wired> ayoy: :D
[22:37:37] <yngwin> bug 304115
[22:37:39] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304115 "=dev-python/PyQt4-4.7 with USE="-X" tries to link with -lXext"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; NEW; orzel@freehackers.org:qt@g.o
[22:38:01] <pesa> more precisely, linux.conf seems to hardcode "-lXext -lX11 -lm" in QMAKE_LIBS_X11
[22:38:14] <ayoy> bastard
[22:38:25] <pesa> do you know if this happens in qt too?
[22:38:40] <pesa> IIRC we just patch the configure
[22:38:40] <ayoy> no idea, I can quickly check
[22:38:58] <ayoy> yes, it does
[22:39:05] <pesa> mmm
[22:39:11] <pesa> so how can that work?
[22:39:20] <wired> interesting
[22:39:28] * wired builds qt-core in his Xless chroot for testing
[22:39:31] <pesa> qmake always tries to link with libX11 and friends
[22:39:32] <ayoy> well, but this is just QMAKE_LIBS_X11
[22:39:39] <ayoy> not necessarily used to build QtCore
[22:39:49] <yngwin> also bug 304971 is related to the earlier issue
[22:39:51] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304971 "qt-core stores machine-specific information in /usr/share/qt4/mkspecs"; Gentoo Linux, Library; NEW; ohnobinki@ohnopublishing.net:qt@g.o
[22:39:57] <pesa> not to build qt-core, but to build packages depending on it
[22:40:07] <ayoy> ah right
[22:40:41] <yngwin> so can you two try to figure this out?
[22:40:54] <wired> so pesa trying to build quassel-core would fail on an Xless system?
[22:41:09] <pesa> wired: i don't know, i'm asking if it fails
[22:41:18] <yngwin> then i think we can conclude the meeting, unless there is anything else
[22:41:19] <ayoy> yngwin: I can take a look and maybe figure out the solution
[22:41:22] <wired> im starting a merge now pesa 
[22:41:26] <yngwin> great
[22:41:28] <wired> so we'll know in ~20m
[22:41:29] <wired> :)
[22:41:29] <pesa> wired: great thanks
[22:41:44] <ayoy> yngwin: but we're doing stuff that's unsupported by upstream, I'm afraid
[22:41:56] <yngwin> "stuff"?
[22:42:04] <ayoy> messing up with mkspecs
[22:42:06] <wired> pesa: do you want me to test stable (4.5) or testing?
[22:42:11] <pesa> wired: i'll be surprised to know that qmake hardcodes -lX11 but the build succeeds nonetheless :P
[22:42:13] <ayoy> well, even splitting qt to modules :P
[22:42:20] <ayoy> but let's not talk about it :D
[22:42:27] <yngwin> yes, we are aware
[22:42:35] <pesa> wired: uhm... 4.6.x i guess
[22:42:37] <wired> ok
[22:42:53] <pesa> since it's going stable in the near future
[22:42:54] * wired switches to testing chroot
[22:42:59] <pesa> :)
[22:43:34] <wired> ok here goyes
[22:43:37] <wired> ok here goes*
[22:43:40] <yngwin> ok we're done then?
[22:43:45] <ayoy> I guess so
[22:43:45] <wired> i guess
[22:43:46] <ayoy> :)
[22:43:46] <wired> :)
[22:43:48] <wired> lol
[22:43:50] <ayoy> :D
[22:43:52] <yngwin> ====================================
[22:43:55] <wired> the END
