[19:58:46] *** wired changes topic to 'Gentoo meetings | Qt team meeting now: http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Meeting20101118'
[19:58:50] <wired> !herd qt
[19:58:53] <willikins> (qt) abcd, ayoy, chiiph, spatz, tampakrap, wired
[19:58:58] <wired> ohai ^^
[19:59:03] <chiiph> hey there
[19:59:06] <ayoy> lalala
[19:59:48] <wired> it's been a while since we last did this ;)
[19:59:53] <wired> so, lets see who's here
[20:00:07] <ayoy> :P
[20:00:12] * ayoy here
[20:01:30] * pesa is here
[20:02:11] <wired> alrighty, so we're missing ABCD and spatz
[20:03:13] <pesa> first of all, I'd like to tell you about my quizzes, if I'm allowed to
[20:03:24] <wired> yes ofcourse, its in the agenda ;)
[20:03:31] <wired> go ahead
[20:03:32] <pesa> ok then
[20:03:40] <pesa> after our last meeting in september I almost finished them, only 4-5 answers were missing
[20:03:58] <pesa> but then unfortunately I got caught by several things in my real life and never managed to complete them :(
[20:04:20] <pesa> furthermore, as you probably noticed, I have done basically nothing (i.e. no commits on qting-edge) in almost 2 months
[20:04:45] <pesa> so I thought it made little sense to become a dev if I could not do any development
[20:05:12] <pesa> i hope to get a little bit more free time next month
[20:05:28] <pesa> to finally complete mu quizzes
[20:05:34] <pesa> and resume gentoo development
[20:05:39] <pesa> :)
[20:05:39] <chiiph> pesa: it takes time... so you should finish them anyway
[20:06:07] <ayoy> pesa: plus becoming a dev can give you motivation to work, imo
[20:06:10] <ayoy> :)
[20:06:14] <wired> ayoy++
[20:06:24] <pesa> mmm i see
[20:06:29] <wired> also
[20:06:31] <pesa> that's a great thing
[20:06:37] <wired> you shouldn't worry about dead... periods
[20:06:40] <wired> we all have em
[20:06:56] <chiiph> we sure do :D
[20:07:05] * ayoy for example... :|
[20:07:07] <pesa> i've heard inactive devs are retired
[20:07:15] <pesa> how does that work?
[20:07:16] <wired> well
[20:07:27] <wired> if you don't do anything at all for a couple of months
[20:07:37] <wired> gears will start turning towards your retirement
[20:08:07] <wired> in general though, even a couple of commits a month will keep that off your shoulder
[20:08:11] <wired> you shouldn't worry about it
[20:08:11] <ayoy> but it has to be literally nothing I believe
[20:08:17] <ayoy> exactly
[20:08:17] <pesa> ah ok
[20:08:24] <wired> in the end
[20:08:30] <ayoy> as long as I have any bugs on me I'm towards fixing them
[20:08:30] <wired> we dont want to push people away
[20:08:41] <ayoy> that's why I'm not retired yet :P
[20:09:04] <wired> we just want to make sure noone stays inactive (and out of date) for like a year, then comes back with commit privileges and no knowledge of the current gentoo status
[20:09:37] <pesa> ok now i see the rationale behind that
[20:10:14] <wired> there are other reasons too, but in general keep in mind, no-one will hunt you down to retire you.
[20:10:30] <wired> :P
[20:10:58] <wired> so, no pressure, but get those quizzes done! heheheheh
[20:11:10] <pesa> so i should dedicate my (little) spare time to my quizzes
[20:11:16] <ayoy> :)
[20:11:27] <pesa> yeah
[20:11:40] <pesa> i've started them several months ago :P
[20:11:48] <pesa> that's embarassing at best
[20:12:11] <wired> don't worry about it
[20:12:20] <wired> feel free to send them over if you want
[20:12:36] <pesa> ok thanks!
[20:12:55] <wired> :D
[20:13:04] <wired> next up, qgtkstyle
[20:13:21] <pesa> yeah :S
[20:13:40] <wired> as most of you probably read, I managed to split that bastard from qt-gui to solve the qt-gui[gtk]-cairo[qt4] fail
[20:14:10] <wired> the style works pretty well, but 1) it still depends on cairo[-qt4]
[20:14:41] <wired> 2) qtrackor takes the gtkstyle's existence for granted
[20:15:00] <wired> and fails to build if its not built within qt-gui
[20:15:14] <wired> pesa's rationale about the macro sounds solid
[20:15:16] <pesa> well both issues are minor IMHO
[20:15:38] <wired> as long as no other packages come around checking for gtkstyle, yeah
[20:15:39] <pesa> BUT they might be clues about a bigger problem behind them
[20:16:05] <pesa> i.e. QT_NO_STLYE_GTK seems to be defined even when qgtkstyle is installed
[20:16:33] <pesa> that's cleary a big problem with how we currently handle the splitting
[20:16:47] <wired> thats true
[20:17:14] <wired> so we need to improve the qgtkstyle split
[20:17:58] <wired> ftr i forgot to mention that to build the style i borrowed the main.cpp file from the first, old release of qgtkstyle, before it was integrated to qt-gui
[20:18:29] <pesa> i'd like to know if QT_STLYE_GTK is defined with qt-gui[gtk]
[20:18:35] <wired> its not
[20:19:05] <pesa> neither QT_STLYE_GTK not QT_NO_STLYE_GTK ?
[20:19:05] <pesa> *nor
[20:19:40] <wired> only QT_NO_STYLE_GTK is used
[20:19:46] *** Joins: hwoarang (~hwoarang@gentoo/developer/hwoarang)
[20:19:58] <ayoy> hai hwoarang :)
[20:20:05] <wired> hey former qtier
[20:20:28] * hwoarang takes a seat
[20:21:06] <hwoarang> i m confused
[20:21:07] <wired> configure:[ "$CFG_QGTKSTYLE" != "yes" ] && QCONFIG_FLAGS="$QCONFIG_FLAGS QT_NO_STYLE_GTK"
[20:21:17] <wired> then its used in a few ifdefs
[20:21:35] <pesa> ah yes
[20:21:40] <pesa> i wasn't looking at configure
[20:22:20] <pesa> i was looking at /usr/include/qt4/Qt/qconfig.h 
[20:23:02] <pesa> if both macros are not defined, then it defaults to QT_NO_STYLE_GTK
[20:23:42] <wired> both macros?
[20:23:53] <pesa> both QT_STLYE_GTK and QT_NO_STLYE_GTK
[20:24:09] <pesa> *STYLE
[20:24:35] <wired> QT_STYLE_GTK is not used anywhere
[20:24:45] <wired> the only non NO_ occurence i see is this:
[20:24:51] <wired> tools/configure/configureapp.cpp:    dictionary[ "STYLE_GTK" ]       = "no";
[20:24:55] <wired> tools/configure/configureapp.cpp:        if (dictionary["STYLE_GTK"] != "yes")         qconfigList += "QT_NO_STYLE_GTK";
[20:26:57] <wired> ok so we all agree this needs to be fixed and returning to qt-gui[gtk] is not an options?
[20:27:11] <pesa> yes, definitely
[20:27:21] <tampakrap> +1
[20:27:25] <chiiph> yes
[20:27:28] <ayoy> yup
[20:28:02] <wired> ok, so if anyone has time, please have a look at it. we can talk about it here or at qt@ for now
[20:28:16] <wired> I'll definately spend some more time on it
[20:28:53] <wired> 2. qting-edge
[20:29:17] <wired> the overlay qt-* ebuilds need updating
[20:29:31] <tampakrap> what kind of update?
[20:29:41] <tampakrap> just a quick sync with the 4.7 is sufficient?
[20:29:45] <wired> they need to get all the fixes from the gentoo-x86 ebuilds
[20:30:13] <wired> prefix, move some vars from global to pkg_setup 
[20:30:20] <pesa> including qgtkstyle i guess
[20:30:25] <wired> yeap
[20:30:38] <wired> i had to do that for 4.7.0 when it hit the tree, because we had based it on the live ebuilds
[20:30:52] <wired> to ensure this doesn't happen again, we need to update the overlay
[20:31:05] <pesa> does 4.6.9999 still make sense btw?
[20:31:24] <ayoy> not really I guess...
[20:31:26] <wired> probably not
[20:32:00] <wired> so.. who wants to take care of this?
[20:32:05] <tampakrap> i'll do it
[20:32:10] <wired> excellent
[20:32:11] <tampakrap> 4.7.9999 that is
[20:32:11] <wired> thanks tampakrap 
[20:32:26] <ayoy> I'd like to help provided that I find time
[20:32:29] <wired> tampakrap: 4.9999 will need the same fixes
[20:32:43] <tampakrap> ok, i can't test that
[20:32:53] <ayoy> I think I may give a try with 4.9999
[20:33:11] <wired> I can easily build-test any version 
[20:33:14] <tampakrap> i can provide the same fixes in both branches, but 4.9999 will be blind commits
[20:33:17] <wired> on my chroot
[20:33:20] <wired> +S
[20:33:21] <tampakrap> ok
[20:33:51] <pesa> oh do we still have stable USE flag?
[20:34:12] <pesa> stable-branch
[20:34:15] <wired> ayoy: well if you want to help, please do, just tell tampakrap you're fixing 4.9999 (if you do) so he can skip em
[20:34:42] <ayoy> wired: sure, but I could start with it at least next week if not next month...
[20:34:47] <tampakrap> yeah, i wanted to ask about stable-branch and kde-qt branch
[20:35:16] <pesa> stable-branch for master is useless imho
[20:35:22] <pesa> master is 4.9999
[20:35:42] <wired> stable-branch is still available on gitorious
[20:35:42] <pesa> last commit is dated Friday July 09 2010 on the stable-branch
[20:35:50] <pesa> but it's outdated
[20:35:53] <wired> yeah
[20:36:01] <pesa> it's very old
[20:36:10] <tampakrap> and 4.7?
[20:36:17] <pesa> 4.7 is updated daily
[20:36:44] <pesa> so i propose to drop stable-branch from 4.9999
[20:36:45] <wired> so leave stable-branch only in 4.7.9999 for now?
[20:36:54] <pesa> yes imho
[20:36:56] <tampakrap> ok, so 4.7 has stable-branch, does it have kde-qt branch?
[20:37:08] <pesa> no
[20:37:15] <pesa> only 4.6.9999 has kde-qt
[20:37:34] <pesa> no wait
[20:37:45] * wired still waiting for gitorious to load
[20:37:51] <tampakrap> any idea why they skipped it then? :)
[20:38:07] <ayoy> maybe they integrated kde-qt changes into master
[20:38:25] <tampakrap> seems impossible
[20:38:29] <pesa> i can't find it
[20:38:36] <wired> wait
[20:38:45] <pesa> it's slooooow
[20:39:22] <pesa> there's a branch
[20:39:32] <wired> http://qt.gitorious.org/+kde-developers/qt/kde-qt/commits/4.7.0-patched
[20:39:33] <pesa> kde-qt:4.7.0-patched
[20:39:37] <wired> ;p
[20:39:39] <pesa> wired: heh ;)
[20:40:02] <wired> damn gitorious ui sux bad
[20:40:20] <tampakrap> ok, we need that too
[20:40:39] <wired> i have a feeling that only applies to 4.7.0
[20:40:40] <pesa> it's older than 4.7.1 though
[20:40:42] <wired> so its useless
[20:41:19] <wired> but it seems they do have
[20:41:20] <tampakrap> ok
[20:41:22] <wired> 4.7.1-patched as well
[20:41:32] <wired> http://qt.gitorious.org/+kde-developers/qt/kde-qt/commit/1b3f43c997b00d6b0d435ed8be08596c913a0189
[20:41:36] <wired> it fails to show on the browser
[20:41:37] <wired> ;p
[20:41:39] <pesa> o_O
[20:42:14] <ayoy> github also fails on huge commits ;)
[20:42:19] <wired> we could provide kde-qt in 4.7.1
[20:42:37] <wired> assuming the patches are of real importance
[20:42:42] <wired> imo there's no need though
[20:42:52] <tampakrap> ok, cool
[20:43:12] <wired> k
[20:43:25] <wired> if a 4.7 branch pops up
[20:43:32] <wired> we can always add it in 4.7.9999 :)
[20:44:03] <pesa> so no kde-qt for now?
[20:44:14] <wired> no kde-qt for now
[20:44:21] <pesa> ok
[20:44:36] <wired> 3. jit USE in qt-{core,script,webkit}.
[20:44:57] <chiiph> I was going to test that yesterday...
[20:45:05] <chiiph> but I wasn't sure to which versions...
[20:45:13] <tampakrap> the switch is always on atm
[20:45:16] <wired> i'd say 4.7.1
[20:45:21] <tampakrap> +1
[20:45:36] <chiiph> oks, I can take care of that...
[20:46:03] <wired> but we'll have to check deps, most packages will probably need qt-*[jit]
[20:46:04] <pesa> cool
[20:46:12] <pesa> uh
[20:46:18] <chiiph> yes, it'll be +jit in the USE
[20:46:21] <tampakrap> enable by default maybe?
[20:46:24] <pesa> of course
[20:46:35] <pesa> but it's an implementation detail i think
[20:46:45] <pesa> deps shouldn't be affected
[20:47:16] <chiiph> but they wouldn't be if it's by defaults
[20:47:22] <chiiph> *default
[20:47:41] <wired> alrighty
[20:47:59] * hwoarang someone highlight me before you reach the end of agenda
[20:48:28] <wired> hwoarang: we already talked about pesa, if thats what you're waiting for
[20:48:31] <wired> ;p
[20:48:35] <hwoarang> no
[20:48:52] * hwoarang wants to read the summary though
[20:48:58] * pesa points his torch against hwoarang
[20:49:25] <wired> okie
[20:49:35] <hwoarang> thx
[20:49:46] <wired> so chiiph jit is yours :)
[20:50:02] <chiiph> yep...
[20:50:04] <wired> 4. dev USE in qt-gui
[20:50:12] <wired> bug 328689
[20:50:14] <willikins> wired: https://bugs.gentoo.org/328689 "[FEATURE REQUEST] x11-libs/qt-gui: dev USE flag"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; jonelf@canada.com:qt@g.o
[20:50:35] <ayoy> I'm thinking whether it's the best option possible
[20:50:42] <ayoy> it's not quite straightforward
[20:50:47] <ayoy> "dev" useflag
[20:50:51] <ayoy> and it's in qt-gui
[20:50:54] <ayoy> kinda weird
[20:51:11] <wired> devel? development? dev-tools?
[20:51:16] <ayoy> I thought about maybe extracting designer and linguist into separate packages
[20:51:28] <pesa> yeah
[20:51:32] <wired> that wouldn't be a bad idea
[20:51:33] <pesa> i agree with ayoy
[20:51:42] <pesa> also
[20:51:48] <pesa> 4.8 will be modular
[20:51:48] <ayoy> that would increase the work on further maintenance ofc :P
[20:51:51] <wired> anyone know why they were included in qt-gui in the first place?
[20:51:58] <wired> pesa: I wanted to say that too :P
[20:52:00] <ayoy> wired: because they need gui
[20:52:07] <wired> that will bring hell to our packages anyway
[20:52:12] <ayoy> yeah...
[20:52:16] <wired> I can see them not splitting the same way we do
[20:52:25] <pesa> maybe the designer requires private headers
[20:52:29] <ayoy> wired: you're just right
[20:52:34] <ayoy> they're not gonna do it our way
[20:52:41] <ayoy> I've seen some slides at Qt Dev Days
[20:52:45] <wired> yeah me too
[20:52:47] <wired> some blog post
[20:52:51] * wired opens reader
[20:52:52] <ayoy> don't remember them right now, but it's gonna be different
[20:52:54] <ayoy> ;]
[20:53:14] <pesa> http://labs.qt.nokia.com/2010/10/26/qt-is-going-modular/
[20:53:14] <wired> http://labs.qt.nokia.com/2010/10/26/qt-is-going-modular/
[20:53:17] <wired> hah
[20:53:19] <ayoy> yeah
[20:53:42] <ayoy> still core+gui are together
[20:53:43] <wired> they're planning to have core+gui together
[20:53:45] <pesa> we should re-discuss when they reach a final decision
[20:53:51] <wired> definately
[20:53:53] <ayoy> sure
[20:54:07] <ayoy> we still have around 1 year :)
[20:54:22] <wired> ok, who wants to tackle the new split then?
[20:54:43] <ayoy> I'd like to do this
[20:54:56] <ayoy> but I guess I'll send a mail to qt@g.o beforehand
[20:54:57] <pesa> well i don't think i'll have the time :(
[20:55:01] <ayoy> with the possible solutions
[20:55:12] <pesa> ok nice ;)
[20:55:22] <wired> ayoy: yeah, it may be hard or not beneficial to do in the end  anyway
[20:55:27] <wired> ayoy: great, thanks :)
[20:55:36] <ayoy> np :)
[20:55:43] <wired> 5. 4.6.3 stabilization
[20:55:46] <wired> you have beer ready?
[20:56:03] <pesa> ayoy: a solution can be "wait for 4.8" :P
[20:56:06] <ayoy> ;-)
[20:56:12] <pesa> wired: of course ;)
[20:56:17] <wired> only ppc64 is left, this was pretty fast, perhaps my mail to arches paid off? =]
[20:56:29] <pesa> definitely
[20:56:47] <wired> 4.5 can already go
[20:57:22] <pesa> yup
[20:57:37] <wired> and 4.6.2 as soon as ppc64 is done :)
[20:58:11] <wired> also, while at this, what do you guys think of x11-libs/qt ?
[20:58:42] <wired> there are people that still think this actually provides qt
[20:58:47] <ayoy> :)
[20:59:05] <wired> we don't even have a 4.6.3 version
[20:59:07] <pesa> it's misleading
[20:59:10] <wired> im tempted to send it to oblivion
[20:59:27] <tampakrap> i want it
[20:59:31] <wired> why?
[20:59:51] <tampakrap> because users are asking for it, and i usually have to deal with them
[21:00:02] <wired> users are asking for it because they think its useful
[21:00:04] <tampakrap> as i am the only one here with full free time
[21:00:04] <pesa> but it's masked
[21:00:11] <wired> and noone reads the mask notice
[21:00:13] <ayoy> does stable portage support sets btw?
[21:00:16] <wired> no
[21:00:22] <hwoarang> qt meta was kept in the tree for qt developers
[21:00:32] <hwoarang> for those you want *ALL* the qt packages
[21:00:37] <wired> yes, true
[21:00:43] <ayoy> good point
[21:00:44] <wired> but it seems that they are not the ones using it
[21:00:45] <pesa> emerging qt-demo is the same
[21:00:48] <wired> or complaining about it
[21:01:01] <ayoy> pesa: nice catch :D
[21:01:06] <wired> heh
[21:01:13] <wired> nice indeed
[21:01:28] <pesa> except declarative maybe
[21:01:30] <hwoarang> you can easily mask it for removal along with directions on how to fix world file
[21:01:52] <pesa> ah no
[21:01:55] <pesa> even declarative
[21:02:02] <pesa> because assistant requires declarative :P
[21:02:09] <wired> how about a news item followed by a rm -f ? :P
[21:02:16] <hwoarang> qt-demo installs examples for eeeeeeeeeverything
[21:02:20] <pesa> sounds cool
[21:02:39] <wired> hwoarang: probably needed by all qt devs
[21:02:41] <wired> ;p
[21:02:59] <hwoarang> yes
[21:03:11] <hwoarang> but asking them to install qt-demo to act as meta package is stupid ;P
[21:03:17] <ayoy> right
[21:03:28] <pesa> i'm a qt dev and i don't use x11-libs/qt anyway
[21:03:31] <wired> i still doubt we have ANY users using this package for this reason
[21:03:36] <wired> I understand why we have it
[21:03:41] <wired> but all complains so far have been
[21:03:44] <wired> HEY, new Qt IS OUT
[21:03:49] <wired> BUMP x11-libs/qt!
[21:03:53] <ayoy> ;]
[21:03:56] <pesa> i don't think x11-libs/qt is for devs actually
[21:04:08] <pesa> because they know exactly which modules they need
[21:04:14] <pesa> for their stuff
[21:04:37] <pesa> and they install just those
[21:04:38] <ayoy> but then most devs want all the modules
[21:04:39] <ayoy> just in case
[21:04:41] <ayoy> I'd say...
[21:04:53] <ayoy> I'd do that :P
[21:04:58] <hwoarang> i do that too
[21:05:28] <wired> hmmm
[21:05:33] <pesa> bah
[21:05:34] <wired> how about this
[21:05:38] <pesa> i don't reallt care
[21:05:38] <hwoarang> and the deps are pretty much complex so in the end you end up having installed 12/14 packages
[21:05:41] <pesa> *really
[21:05:44] <hwoarang> not far from meta package
[21:05:52] <pesa> hwoarang: indeed
[21:05:59] <wired> we kill all current x11-libs/qt ebuilds
[21:06:07] <wired> we add a versionless one
[21:06:11] <wired> with versionless deps
[21:06:13] <pesa> o_O
[21:06:26] <hwoarang> pesa: the deps need refactoring otherwise you end up with all the modules and hey, you have a full modular Qt installed
[21:06:28] <wired> or maybe one per 4.x
[21:06:40] <pesa> like qt-meta-4 ?
[21:06:59] <wired> yeah, tracking the latest stable and testing versions
[21:07:23] <wired> qt-meta-4.6 and qt-meta 4.7 or something
[21:07:28] <wired> to account for different modules available
[21:07:39] <pesa> uhm
[21:07:45] <pesa> should work
[21:08:05] <wired> we can even pkgmove x11-libs/qt to x11-libs/qt-meta
[21:08:12] <wired> that'll fix all those world files out there
[21:08:13] <wired> :P
[21:08:37] <pesa> and change the description
[21:08:43] <wired> yes
[21:08:49] <pesa> make it clear it's a meta-package
[21:08:49] <wired> and stop providing minor version ebuilds
[21:09:12] <pesa> like kde*-meta
[21:09:23] <wired> unless its needed for some reason, then we can always add a 4.7.3 on top of 4.7 for example
[21:09:34] <pesa> ok sounds good
[21:11:12] <wired> lets recap. qt->qt-meta, 4.6 (stable) and 4.7 for starters
[21:11:29] <wired> we can even unmask it them
[21:11:32] <wired> rest of the team ^^ ?
[21:11:36] <pesa> yes unmask it
[21:11:57] <ayoy> well, why not
[21:12:35] <tampakrap> well, we don't care actually :)
[21:12:39] <tampakrap> justdoit
[21:12:41] <wired> great
[21:12:41] <ayoy> :P
[21:12:46] <wired> I'll do this then
[21:12:50] <wired> stupid bugs will stop
[21:12:53] <wired> :D
[21:13:06] <pesa> anything else?
[21:13:12] <ayoy> hwoarang
[21:13:16] <wired> hwoarang wanted something
[21:13:19] <hwoarang> ye
[21:13:22] <hwoarang> qt-mobility
[21:13:26] <pesa> ah 
[21:13:28] <hwoarang> status/v bump to 1.1.0 / portage
[21:13:39] <pesa> i taked a look some days ago
[21:13:43] <pesa> *took
[21:13:46] <pesa> ehm
[21:13:51] <pesa> it doesn't compile
[21:13:53] <pesa> :(
[21:13:55] <hwoarang> the latest release?
[21:13:56] <wired> i don't see a bug for it, why?
[21:14:01] <hwoarang> wired: bug?
[21:14:06] <hwoarang> qt-mobility is on qting-edge
[21:14:07] <pesa> 1.1.0 does not compile
[21:14:12] <pesa> and i couldn't figure out why
[21:14:26] <hwoarang> xm
[21:14:31] <wired> hwoarang: well, overlay or not, bug for version bump is always useful to gather attention :)
[21:14:37] <pesa> nobody asked for it yet
[21:14:43] <hwoarang> bump is not my major concern atm
[21:14:44] <hwoarang> :)
[21:14:50] <hwoarang> i want to know about the status and future plans
[21:14:56] <pesa> i'll wait for 1.1.1
[21:15:04] <pesa> if it works i'll bump it
[21:15:09] <pesa> and you can move to the tree
[21:15:17] <hwoarang> ppl will ask it as meego matures
[21:15:30] <hwoarang> plug afaik is the recommended API for meego apps
[21:15:37] * hwoarang still needs to read the Nokia blog
[21:15:53] <pesa> i can imagine
[21:16:24] <pesa> if there's a pressing need to have it, I could disable the faulty module and try the other ones
[21:16:30] <wired> pesa: what's the error with mobility?
[21:16:33] <pesa> but I dunno when i'll have time
[21:16:36] <hwoarang> no pressure
[21:16:41] <hwoarang> i can take a look too
[21:16:42] <pesa> wired: i don't remember atm
[21:17:05] <pesa> some syntax error iirc
[21:17:09] <hwoarang> i am not familiar with the build system as I haven't touched it since July or so
[21:17:37] <pesa> ah
[21:17:46] <pesa> we have a problem with qmf
[21:17:52] <hwoarang> ah
[21:17:53] <pesa> upstream is distro-unfriendly
[21:17:58] <hwoarang> that rings a bell to me
[21:17:58] <pesa> they don't do releases
[21:18:11] <hwoarang> qmf is required for mobility?
[21:18:16] <hwoarang> that was part of the sdk
[21:18:18] <pesa> for the messaging module
[21:18:35] <hwoarang> so how come nokia ships mobility?
[21:18:40] <hwoarang> bundles a copy of qmf?
[21:18:47] <pesa> nope
[21:19:09] <pesa> mobility requires qmf but it's up to the user/dev to satisfy the requirement
[21:19:21] <hwoarang> oh boy
[21:19:37] <wired> ...
[21:19:46] <hwoarang> meh
[21:19:57] <hwoarang> :(
[21:20:00] <pesa> :s
[21:20:03] <hwoarang> now that is complex
[21:20:13] <pesa> we have to do snapshots
[21:20:19] <pesa> or ping upstream
[21:20:19] <hwoarang> either you disable the qmf if possible, or provide snapshots
[21:20:43] * hwoarang wonders what arch and debian do
[21:20:46] <pesa> i can disable it, but you'll lose the whole QtMessaging library
[21:21:17] <hwoarang> this is why mobility fails?
[21:21:21] <pesa> nope
[21:21:23] <hwoarang> ah
[21:21:29] <pesa> the failure is in another module
[21:21:32] <hwoarang> so we have more than 1 problems :)
[21:21:39] <pesa> yep :(
[21:21:49] <hwoarang> sweet
[21:21:52] <hwoarang> does qmf builds?
[21:21:53] <wired> ah nokia
[21:21:55] <pesa> i should ask upstream if/when they plan to do regular releases
[21:22:09] <pesa> hwoarang: it did some months ago
[21:22:13] <hwoarang> it did yes
[21:22:26] <pesa> i haven't tested it in quite a while
[21:22:35] <pesa> 2 months
[21:23:01] <hwoarang> ok
[21:23:15] <hwoarang> if it compiles we can create a snapshot
[21:23:21] <pesa> yes
[21:23:22] <hwoarang> and play with mobility after that
[21:23:27] <hwoarang> ok
[21:23:28] <pesa> possible
[21:23:48] <hwoarang> good
[21:23:51] <pesa> i'd like to contact upstream anyway
[21:23:57] <hwoarang> be my guest
[21:24:19] <pesa> i have to go now guys
[21:24:22] <wired> alrighty
[21:24:26] <wired> we're done anyway
[21:24:31] <pesa> good
[21:24:32] <wired> thank you all for being here
[21:24:37] <pesa> thank you!
[21:24:37] <ayoy> thanks guys! :)
[21:24:43] <pesa> cya later
[21:24:44] <hwoarang> bb
[21:24:47] <wired> i'll push the summary a bit later
[21:24:52] <ayoy> awesome
[21:25:01] <wired> thanks again
[21:25:05] <wired> :)
[21:25:06] <pesa> ty
[21:25:26] <hwoarang> wired: do that I want to see about pesas' quizzes
[21:25:51] <wired> hwoarang: short version: had no time, will use whatever time he gets to do them asap or we'll spank him
[21:25:55] <wired> ;]
[21:26:03] <hwoarang> mmm
[21:26:06] <hwoarang> good deal
[21:26:27] *** wired changes topic to 'Gentoo meetings | Qt team meeting now over'
