[20:39:28] <yngwin> Qt meeting @ 1800 UTC today, KDE meeting @ 1900
[20:40:06] *** nirbheek changes topic to 'Gentoo meetings | April 15th: Qt meeting @ 1800 UTC, KDE meeting @ 1900 UTC'
[20:40:26] * nirbheek wonders if gnome should have a meeting sometime soon
[20:40:58] <yngwin> tnx
[20:41:05] <nirbheek> yw
[20:42:31] *** Joins: ayoy (~ayoy@244-133.lodz.mm.pl)
[20:42:31] *** Quits: ayoy (~ayoy@244-133.lodz.mm.pl) (Changing host)
[20:42:31] *** Joins: ayoy (~ayoy@gentoo/developer/ayoy)
[20:47:02] *** Joins: spatz (~spatz@gentoo/developer/spatz)
[20:58:14] * hwoarang is going to make a cup of hot hot hot coffee
[20:59:37] * yngwin is drinking one already :)
[21:01:57] <spatz> looks like a short one today
[21:02:56] <hwoarang> i doubt :)
[21:03:29] <spatz> aaaaaaaand .....
[21:03:33] <spatz> here we go :D
[21:03:42] <ayoy> helow
[21:03:54] <spatz> indeed
[21:04:02] <spatz> !herd qt
[21:04:03] <willikins> (qt) abcd, ayoy, hwoarang, spatz, ssuominen, tampakrap, wired, yngwin
[21:04:10] <bonsaikitten> OHAI
[21:04:34] <pesa> hi guys
[21:04:50] <yngwin> ok, meeting is starting, agenda is at http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Meeting20100415
[21:04:51] <spatz> elo
[21:05:00] <yngwin> rollcall" is everyone here?
[21:05:13] <spatz> here
[21:05:27] * pesa here
[21:05:31] * yngwin here
[21:05:38] * hwoarang here
[21:05:42] * ayoy here
[21:05:51] <hwoarang> abcd absent
[21:05:57] <hwoarang> waiting for wired and tampakrap
[21:06:03] <hwoarang> anyone else?
[21:06:04] <spatz> and ssuominen
[21:06:18] * nirbheek is absent
[21:06:21] <hwoarang> ah i wasnt aware that he was in qt project :)
[21:07:24] <yngwin> yes he joined a little while ago, as he was helping so much anyway (with qt3 removal for example)
[21:09:19] <yngwin> well, let's start
[21:09:32] <spatz> only half the people are here :/
[21:09:32] <yngwin> 1. migrating ebuilds to qt4-r2.eclass
[21:09:49] <yngwin> yes, apparently they couldnt make it in time
[21:09:56] <hwoarang> lets move on
[21:10:27] <yngwin> anyway, any ideas on tackling the ebuilds with old qt4.eclass
[21:10:51] <hwoarang> bug 311481
[21:10:53] <willikins> hwoarang: https://bugs.gentoo.org/311481 "[tracker] Migrate ebuilds from qt4.eclass to qt4-r2.eclass usage"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; yngwin@g.o:qt@g.o
[21:11:00] <hwoarang> http://dev.gentoo.org/~wired/checks/qt4.eclass.html
[21:11:27] <hwoarang> mmmm
[21:11:36] <spatz> many bugs need filing
[21:11:39] <hwoarang> how should we deal with this
[21:11:40] <ayoy> yeah
[21:11:50] <yngwin> what i started to do is work on some ebuild and ask the maintainer for ok to commit or otherwise submitting a patch
[21:11:54] <hwoarang> why? cant we do it silently?
[21:12:08] <ayoy> it depends on maintainers' attitude I guess
[21:12:30] <yngwin> you need to ask maintainers, as it often is also migrating to eapi2/3
[21:12:31] <hwoarang> errr opening like 80 bugs wont work
[21:12:31] <ayoy> cause we don't have policy on touching others' ebuilds, right?
[21:12:32] <spatz> like ABCD does with all his prefix stuff
[21:12:49] <yngwin> he does ask, usually
[21:12:59] <spatz> sure, that's what I meant
[21:13:12] <yngwin> ayoy: right, council rejected the proposal
[21:13:19] <hwoarang> what about an email on -dev
[21:13:26] <ayoy> what about filing bugs with readymade patches?
[21:13:29] <hwoarang> asking the to check the list, fix the ebuild withing the next 60days
[21:13:50] <hwoarang> *them
[21:14:02] <spatz> I like the first approach better
[21:14:08] *** Joins: lazevedo (~lucasazev@200.129.46.206)
[21:14:19] <ayoy> the first is easier for us, of course :)
[21:14:23] <hwoarang> yes  but how are we gonna prepare 80 patches?
[21:14:28] <yngwin> you can do both
[21:14:31] <ayoy> aaa, this "first" :P
[21:14:41] <yngwin> ask on dev ml for maintainers to look at this
[21:15:08] <yngwin> then start doing patches yourself when maintainers take too long
[21:15:14] <ayoy> I think that maintainers not necessarily have to realize the changes between qt4.eclass and qt4-r2
[21:15:14] <hwoarang> honestly I want to let the maintainers do all the work
[21:15:23] <lazevedo> has the qt meeting started? :)
[21:15:27] <hwoarang> yes
[21:15:30] <ayoy> so it will take less time for us
[21:15:31] <yngwin> hwoarang: that will take years
[21:15:33] <bonsaikitten> give them a month, then start fixing yourself
[21:15:42] <ayoy> bonsaikitten++
[21:15:47] <hwoarang> what bonsaikitten and yngwin  said ^^
[21:15:53] <hwoarang> 60 days. Then we touch them
[21:15:55] <spatz> you'd need bugs for that, imo
[21:15:56] <ayoy> like sping did with migrating packages to dev-vcs
[21:15:57] <bonsaikitten> might not be the popular method, but that's how you fix things
[21:16:44] <yngwin> i find that often it is ok if you ping maintainers on irc, especially if you can show a patch
[21:17:05] <ayoy> yeah, I like the idea of patching by us
[21:17:12] <ayoy> if we care about this issue, we;re gonna fix it
[21:17:19] <yngwin> if they dont react, you can file a bug, with the notice "to be applied in 7 days unless you object"
[21:17:25] <ayoy> maintainers don't have to care about this thing as much as we do :)
[21:17:42] <spatz> +1
[21:17:50] <ayoy> "this thing" being migrating qt4->qt4-r2
[21:17:55] <spatz> pretty much what was first suggested, so ok
[21:18:28] <yngwin> ok, all agreed?
[21:18:53] <hwoarang> ok
[21:18:58] <ayoy> pretty much yes, but can you sum it up? :)
[21:20:04] *** Joins: joost_op (~joost@gentoo/contributor/joost-op)
[21:20:21] <yngwin> 1) send dev ml a notice about the migration, asking maintainers to cooperate, and 2) start making patches, ping maintainers on irc for ok, if no reaction file bug that you will apply it in 7 days unless there are objections
[21:20:40] <ayoy> cool
[21:20:45] <hwoarang> fine
[21:21:00] <joost_op> yngwin, Can I read the logs after this somewhere, I have to leave
[21:21:20] <yngwin> yes, we put up logs of every meeting
[21:21:25] <joost_op> thanks
[21:21:27] <joost_op> cheers all
[21:21:32] <spatz> next subject?
[21:21:36] <yngwin> 2. meego ebuilds and status update
[21:21:57] <ayoy> I have one small info here
[21:21:58] <yngwin> a start has been made on meego packages
[21:22:05] <yngwin> yes?
[21:22:07] *** Joins: Thev00d00 (~v00d00@unaffiliated/thev00d00)
[21:22:14] <ayoy> libdui, that I've recently added
[21:22:20] <ayoy> has ben renamed as libmeegotuoch
[21:22:28] <ayoy> however it's not yet tagged
[21:22:33] <ayoy> *libmeegotouch
[21:22:39] <yngwin> ok
[21:22:41] <ayoy> so I'm waiting with changes to ebuilds
[21:23:01] <hwoarang> meego has recently made the repos public
[21:23:03] <yngwin> i've also invited some people from sabayon who are interested in packaging these
[21:23:17] <pesa> i've seen more recent tags in libdui git however
[21:23:33] <pesa> and also in other packages
[21:23:33] <ayoy> pesa: true, but renaming occured on moday iirc
[21:23:42] <pesa> ah i see
[21:23:52] <ayoy> anyway, we're after the API/ABI unfreeze period
[21:23:57] <ayoy> and this stuff is mostly broken
[21:23:58] <ayoy> :)
[21:24:14] <ayoy> there's huge amount of changes between 0.19 and 0.20
[21:24:20] <yngwin> so i take it you guys will keep an eye on this and cooperate on ebuilds?
[21:24:37] <ayoy> sure, I guess so
[21:24:47] <hwoarang> http://meego.gitorious.org/
[21:25:03] <hwoarang> there are many projects there. Do you know which of them are useful to us?
[21:25:20] <ayoy> not really actually
[21:25:22] <hwoarang> cause I dont
[21:25:25] *** Joins: pontecorvo (~solshark@93-183-241-28-dynamic.retail.datagroup.ua)
[21:25:39] <ayoy> I have to take a lok at it
[21:25:58] <ayoy> since at least libdui is still at qt.gitorious.org
[21:26:00] * hwoarang is confused with all the meego thingie
[21:26:12] <ayoy> hwoarang: Nokia is confused about this, believe me :)
[21:26:29] <yngwin> it may also be a good idea to follow discussions in #meego, the meego MLs and forums
[21:26:38] <hwoarang> i am following -dev
[21:26:45] <hwoarang> but there is too much info there
[21:26:47] <alexxy> hi all!
[21:26:55] <hwoarang> see my note on agenda
[21:27:15] <hwoarang> dividing qt to work groups
[21:27:35] <yngwin> i was planning to look into taking part in meego itself, so i may be more informed about this in the future :)
[21:27:38] <yngwin> hi alexxy
[21:27:44] <hwoarang> i cant follow all the changes in Qt libs + meego + qt apps. I was wondering if it would make sense to create some workgroups
[21:27:59] <ayoy> hwoarang: what is it about? to define responsibility areas across qt ebuilds?
[21:28:00] <yngwin> i think it is very early days still
[21:28:19] <hwoarang> ayoy: some of use to focus on Qt libs, others on meego etc
[21:28:26] <ayoy> sure
[21:28:32] <hwoarang> cause it is somehow impossible to work on all those things
[21:28:51] <hwoarang> those groups will be flexible ofc
[21:28:55] <yngwin> we already work on different things
[21:29:02] <hwoarang> do we?
[21:29:09] <yngwin> until recently i never really touched the live ebuilds
[21:29:33] <yngwin> i tend to maintain certain apps, you others
[21:30:03] <hwoarang> well
[21:30:08] <yngwin> i'm not sure if it is needed to formalize this in workgroups/subprojects
[21:30:26] <spatz> imo, no need for more bureaucracy, people just work on what they like
[21:30:29] <hwoarang> ok so who is working on meego? just ayoy atm ?
[21:30:39] <ayoy> it seems so
[21:30:46] <lazevedo> i would like to work on meego, too
[21:30:58] <ayoy> but well, I didn't look at meego.gitorious.org at all :P
[21:31:00] <lazevedo> though i don't have experience on packaging
[21:31:04] <ayoy> but yeah, I'm interested
[21:31:08] <yngwin> but i do think it is good to document who is working on what in the wiki or somewhere
[21:31:18] <yngwin> like we have done with live ebuilds
[21:31:24] <hwoarang> yngwin: yes 
[21:31:35] <hwoarang> i think it is good to know who is focusing on what
[21:31:41] * yngwin agrees
[21:31:46] <ayoy> wiki page?
[21:31:46] <hwoarang> so we know who to ask about specific bugs
[21:31:51] <hwoarang> wiki on gitorious
[21:31:58] <yngwin> also to make sure everything is covered
[21:32:12] <yngwin> not like some herds which go inactive and nobody notices
[21:32:20] <hwoarang> ofc
[21:32:48] <hwoarang> In my mind, we have to major areas ( Qt libs + Megoo ) + 1 common ( qt4 apps )
[21:32:52] <yngwin> ayoy: like http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Qt4%20live%20ebuilds
[21:32:56] <hwoarang> *s/to/two
[21:34:19] <ayoy> hwoarang: qt4-apps is quite huge
[21:34:28] <yngwin> lazevedo: you're welcome to help, there are enough people here who can answer any questions you might have
[21:34:34] <ayoy> there's also PyQt and pyside
[21:34:47] <pesa> yep
[21:34:55] <ayoy> pyside with its deps is lots of work sometimes
[21:34:56] <lazevedo> thanks yngwin
[21:34:58] <hwoarang> ayoy: regarding qt4-apps each one of us maintains certain packages. So we can leave this aside
[21:35:05] <ayoy> lazevedo: we can talk about meego later
[21:35:07] <ayoy> if you like
[21:35:11] <lazevedo> ayoy: sure
[21:35:12] <ayoy> hwoarang: sure
[21:35:17] <hwoarang> i have no idea about pyside
[21:35:25] <ayoy> hwoarang: I have an idea :P
[21:35:32] <yngwin> lazevedo: you're always welcome in #gentoo-qt
[21:35:46] <hwoarang> PyQt4+sip are in a good shape. Snapshots + tree packages are working fine
[21:35:47] <lazevedo> yngwin: ty :)
[21:36:00] <hwoarang> python herd touches tree packages as well
[21:36:41] <hwoarang> i wouldnt worry about the so much. They dont require much hardware resources or time to maintain them  :)
[21:36:46] <hwoarang> *them
[21:36:53] <yngwin> anything else we need to decide about meego ebuilds now?
[21:37:01] * hwoarang stupid lag with woodpecker
[21:37:15] <hwoarang> yngwin:  I guess not.
[21:37:16] <ayoy> I don't think so
[21:37:27] <ayoy> we can pacakge everything :)
[21:37:38] <hwoarang> ayoy: pleae send us an email on qt@ when you have meego on working state
[21:37:44] <ayoy> hwoarang: sure
[21:37:56] <yngwin> ok, so to summarize: we'll look into what is interesting for us to package, and we'll document who is working on what
[21:38:08] <hwoarang> right
[21:38:22] <pesa> sounds good
[21:39:02] <yngwin> alright? any other comments on this subject?
[21:39:37] <hwoarang> i guess not
[21:39:38] <lazevedo> well, i have never packaged anything, so i don't think i can add anything for now :b
[21:39:47] <yngwin> then 3. call for candidates for project lead (elections next meeting)
[21:39:52] <ayoy> lazevedo: we'll teach you if you want
[21:39:56] *** reavertm_ is now known as reavertm
[21:40:04] <hwoarang> lazevedo: http://devmanual.gentoo.org
[21:40:06] <hwoarang> good place to start
[21:40:08] <ayoy> :)
[21:40:09] <lazevedo> ayoy: sure
[21:40:15] <lazevedo> ty hwoarang
[21:40:24] <hwoarang> yngwin: ok elections :)
[21:40:26] <lazevedo> i'll bookmark it and read it when i get home
[21:40:27] <spatz> please do that after the meeting
[21:40:28] <yngwin> next month it will be one year since we had our last "elections", so it is time again
[21:40:39] <hwoarang> ok cool
[21:41:11] <hwoarang> yngwin: what is your thoughts about this
[21:41:16] <hwoarang> *s/is/are
[21:41:29] <hwoarang> !devaway yngwin 
[21:41:29] <willikins> hwoarang: yngwin:  minimally active, reconsidering options @ 2010/04/13 13:53Z
[21:41:31] <yngwin> so anyone who wants to volunteer for that job, can be a candidate and next meeting the qt project members will vote
[21:41:49] <yngwin> unless you want to organize it in a different way
[21:41:56] <spatz> devaway? why?
[21:42:23] <yngwin> to reconsider my options before i make the big break
[21:42:32] <spatz> big break?
[21:42:42] <yngwin> i will be resigning from gentoo
[21:42:53] <spatz> huh? when?
[21:42:56] <pesa> :O
[21:43:03] <hwoarang> yngwin: i am only interesting in lead this project just in case you end up inactive because of all the China thing or your retirement
[21:43:03] <ayoy> ...
[21:43:09] <yngwin> within the next few days
[21:43:21] <spatz> you've already made up your mind?
[21:43:34] <hwoarang> i really really hope this is a bad joke though
[21:43:35] <reavertm> is gentoo forbidden in China? hmm
[21:43:46] <hwoarang> reavertm: busy RL
[21:43:50] <yngwin> i basically decided that early this week, i just thought to take some days to think things over
[21:43:52] <nirbheek> reavertm, why would it be?
[21:44:01] <nirbheek> reavertm, our best soc application is from a chinese undergrad
[21:44:22] <spatz> yngwin: you've got to be kidding me. please reconsider
[21:44:32] <ayoy> tough shit
[21:44:51] <ayoy> but, life has to go on, I understand
[21:44:56] <yngwin> spatz: so far i have seen no signs of change
[21:45:33] <yngwin> anyway, i'm still around, so we can discuss it after the meeting
[21:45:45] <nirbheek> yngwin, the what
[21:45:51] * nirbheek just glanced at the backlog
[21:45:56] <yngwin> but as things stand now, you will need a new project lead
[21:46:10] <nirbheek> yngwin, I have a bit of friendly advice
[21:46:10] <yngwin> nirbheek: ?
[21:46:34] <spatz> ok, we'll discuss that later. you won't run for lead anyway?
[21:46:42] <nirbheek> yngwin, take a break for a few weeks
[21:46:57] <yngwin> spatz: at this moment i am not a candidate
[21:47:00] <nirbheek> yngwin, or more, if you haven't already
[21:47:39] <yngwin> nirbheek: we can discuss this later, we need to move on with this meeting 
[21:47:53] <nirbheek> yngwin, oh, sorry, I thought the meeting was over :)
[21:47:54] <spatz> so we need candidates. anyone stepping up?
[21:48:06] <hwoarang> I am 
[21:48:14] <spatz> great
[21:48:16] <ayoy> :)
[21:48:26] * hwoarang will stay around after the meeting to make yngwin stay
[21:48:34] <yngwin> hehe
[21:48:40] <spatz> so let's move on to the next subject
[21:48:44] <hwoarang> ok
[21:49:08] <yngwin> i would suggest to leave some time for others to step up if they want, as some people are not here
[21:49:17] <hwoarang> ofc 
[21:49:18] <spatz> they have all month :)
[21:49:23] <yngwin> ok
[21:49:33] <hwoarang> 4 Bugs
[21:49:33] <yngwin> shall we move to the next topic then?
[21:49:46] <yngwin> bug 311481
[21:49:48] <hwoarang> Forget about the first bullet as we discussed it earlier
[21:49:50] <willikins> https://bugs.gentoo.org/311481 "[tracker] Migrate ebuilds from qt4.eclass to qt4-r2.eclass usage"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; NEW; yngwin@g.o:qt@g.o
[21:49:53] <yngwin> ok
[21:49:59] <yngwin> bug 312689
[21:50:03] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/312689 "x11-libs/qt-core-4.6.2-r1 forces additional CFLAGS and CXXFLAGS for dev-python/PyQt4-4.7.2"; Gentoo Linux, Development; NEW; Martin.vGagern@gmx.net:qt@g.o
[21:50:19] <hwoarang> pesa: ^
[21:50:36] <yngwin> isnt this a PyQt4 problem?
[21:50:56] <pesa> it should be solved by ayoy's work on mkspecs i think
[21:51:15] <ayoy> oh
[21:51:29] <ayoy> pesa: could you please test with qting-edge branch?
[21:51:37] <ayoy> if you use qt-4.6.2
[21:51:45] <pesa> i do
[21:51:46] <hwoarang> did somebody test the new eclass? I am waiting ayoy to port the changes on -edge eclass
[21:51:50] <ayoy> anyway, I'm in progress of porting my changes ti qt4-build-edge
[21:51:53] <hwoarang> ok
[21:52:06] <ayoy> yeah, I was about to do that yesterday but failed due to lack of time :/
[21:52:15] <yngwin> so this is being worked on
[21:52:16] <hwoarang> no worries
[21:52:29] <pesa> anyway i think there's a real bug in sip-generated Makefiles
[21:53:03] <pesa> because user-specified flags should override mkspecs ones
[21:53:21] <yngwin> indeed
[21:53:24] <hwoarang> should we contact phil?
[21:53:24] <pesa> currently it's the opposite
[21:53:36] <pesa> yes
[21:53:40] <hwoarang> via direct email or through the ML
[21:53:58] <yngwin> the ml should be fine
[21:54:00] <hwoarang> any volunteers?
[21:54:03] <pesa> i'd like to have his opinion
[21:54:22] <pesa> i can do that
[21:54:28] <hwoarang> good 
[21:54:30] <hwoarang> thankx :)
[21:54:39] <pesa> np
[21:54:51] <hwoarang> we do have some security bugs
[21:55:36] <yngwin> we do?
[21:55:55] <hwoarang> yes
[21:55:59] <hwoarang> webkit and arora
[21:56:01] <spatz> yngwin fixed the webkit one
[21:56:16] <yngwin> from what i understand that is a false one
[21:56:25] <yngwin> the arora one
[21:56:35] <hwoarang> so do i
[21:56:47] <yngwin> and webkit should be fixed now
[21:57:00] <hwoarang> we need to call arches to stabilize qt-webkit
[21:57:40] <yngwin> yes, and remove the old ebuild revisions
[21:58:22] <yngwin> so who wants to take care of that?
[21:58:28] <hwoarang> yngwin: can you do it since you took care of it from the very beginning?
[21:59:10] <yngwin> ah yes, i got sidetracked
[21:59:35] <yngwin> i will file the bug
[21:59:39] <hwoarang> thx
[21:59:54] <hwoarang> bug 304115
[21:59:57] <hwoarang> pesa: ^
[21:59:57] <willikins> hwoarang: https://bugs.gentoo.org/304115 "=dev-python/PyQt4-4.7 with USE="-X" tries to link with -lXext"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; NEW; orzel@freehackers.org:qt@g.o
[22:00:02] <pesa> yes?
[22:00:06] <hwoarang> do we need to patch sip or just wait for next release
[22:00:08] <pesa> it's fixed upstream
[22:00:22] <pesa> i dont think it's that urgent
[22:00:33] <hwoarang> ok fine
[22:00:37] <pesa> what do you think?
[22:00:54] <hwoarang> yeah me neitehr
[22:00:57] <pesa> we only had one report in many months
[22:01:22] <hwoarang> One last thing. Should we get rid of 4.6.1 ( and maybe 4.5.3 ) ?
[22:01:32] <spatz> kde meeting in 3 mins, we need to wrap up
[22:01:33] <pesa> what about bug #307861 ?
[22:01:37] <willikins> pesa: https://bugs.gentoo.org/307861 "x11-libs/qt-webkit-4.6.2: ld crashes at linking libQtWebKit.so.4.6.2"; Gentoo Linux, Library; NEW; urcindalo@gmail.com:qt@g.o
[22:02:13] <yngwin> hwoarang: there is still a regression in 4.6.2, so you want to keep 4.6.1, at least till 4.6.3 is released
[22:02:24] <hwoarang> ok
[22:02:34] <hwoarang> pesa: i have no idea wrt that bug
[22:02:43] <yngwin> altho, i didnt patch webkit for 4.6.1
[22:02:54] <yngwin> so it would need to be masked
[22:03:33] <hwoarang> the whole 4.6.1 set?
[22:03:54] <yngwin> all or nothing
[22:04:04] <yngwin> pesa: see comment #4 there
[22:04:57] <pesa> yeah, it seems related to -ggdb
[22:05:02] <yngwin> i'll leave it up to you if you want to do more about that issue
[22:05:13] <hwoarang> fine
[22:05:28] <pesa> question is: should we take some action or just ignore the problem?
[22:05:40] <hwoarang> what can we do
[22:05:56] <pesa> investigate if there's a memleak in ld
[22:06:12] <pesa> or just add a warning if -ggdb is in CXXFLAGS
[22:06:29] <ayoy> hwoarang: btw, I pushed changes to qt4-build-edge.eclass
[22:06:36] <ayoy> please test if you can
[22:06:40] <yngwin> you could ask someone from toolchain to take a look?
[22:06:47] <pesa> or close as worksforme/invalid/whatever
[22:07:08] <yngwin> i dont think its invalid
[22:07:12] <pesa> yngwin: yes, that would be an option
[22:07:19] <hwoarang> yngwin: thx
[22:07:22] <hwoarang> sorry 
[22:07:24] <hwoarang> ayoy: thx
[22:07:24] <hwoarang> :P
[22:07:27] <ayoy> :)
[22:07:29] <yngwin> ok
[22:07:32] <pesa> is toolchain responsive enough?
[22:07:33] <yngwin> we need to wrap up
[22:07:38] <Wizzleby> FWIW, qt-webkit4.6.2 compiles fine for me with -ggdb
[22:07:40] <hwoarang> pesa: yes
[22:07:48] <pesa> nice
[22:07:54] <yngwin> anything else that cant wait?
[22:07:58] <hwoarang> nope
[22:08:13] <yngwin> ok, thank you all 
[22:08:18] <pesa> thanks
[22:08:18] <yngwin> ===========================================
