[21:01:43] <yngwin> Gentoo Qt Project meeting starting 
[21:03:49] * wired here
[21:03:50] <hwoarang> hi
[21:03:56] * wired setting up i5 :P
[21:03:58] *** Joins: tampakrap (~tuxicity@athedsl-269961.home.otenet.gr)
[21:03:59] <yngwin> ABCD: present?
[21:04:17] <ABCD> yngwin: so long as my network connection doesn't die on my
[21:04:22] <ABCD> s/my/me/
[21:04:23] <yngwin> ok
[21:04:41] <yngwin> <yngwin> herd qt
[21:04:41] <yngwin> <Willikins> (qt) abcd, ayoy, carlo, hwoarang, spatz, tampakrap, wired, yngwin
[21:04:45] <spatz> agenda: http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Meeting20100121
[21:04:46] * wired logging
[21:05:06] <yngwin> ayoy is absent as announced
[21:05:10] <yngwin> welcome tampakrap
[21:05:28] <spatz> so we're all set
[21:05:38] <yngwin> except the usual suspect
[21:05:53] *** Joins: ssuominen (ssuominen@unk.fi)
[21:05:56] <yngwin> ok, please be seated, let's get started
[21:06:00] <yngwin> 1. eclass status update
[21:06:05] <tampakrap> who is the usual suspect?
[21:06:16] <yngwin> carlo
[21:06:36] <tampakrap> ok let's remove him then
[21:07:14] <yngwin> yes, let's discuss that after the rest of the agenda
[21:07:40] <yngwin> anyone want to say anything about qt4-r2.eclass?
[21:07:58] <hwoarang> errr
[21:08:06] <hwoarang> about the EAPI3 thing
[21:08:09] <yngwin> we should be checking our ebuilds and move them over little by little
[21:08:15] <yngwin> yes hwoarang?
[21:08:27] <hwoarang> should we care already?
[21:08:29] <ABCD> it only needs a 2-character change to be EAPI-3 compatible - changing "2)" to "2|3)" in the initial case statement
[21:08:30] * spatz thought that's ABCD's turf
[21:08:37] <hwoarang> eapi3 just approved by councli
[21:09:00] <spatz> it's isn't the old eapi3 that you know, don't know if you're updated
[21:09:08] <yngwin> well, i think it would be nice to have eapi-3 compatibility
[21:09:13] <hwoarang> do i am not 
[21:09:17] <hwoarang> *no
[21:09:22] <yngwin> eapi-3 == prefix
[21:09:29] <hwoarang> xm
[21:09:29] <spatz> it's just prefix stuff + .xz file format
[21:09:35] <hwoarang> ok
[21:09:42] <spatz> the old stuff got bumped to eapi4
[21:09:51] <ABCD> hwoarang: eapi3-compatible is also prefix-compatible, so as a member of the prefix team, I care about it :)
[21:09:57] <yngwin> ABCD: are you sure that is all that is needed for qt4-r2 to be eapi-3 compatible?
[21:10:45] <ABCD> yngwin: yes
[21:10:48] <spatz> it uses EPREFIX
[21:10:51] <yngwin> ok, let's do that then
[21:11:03] <hwoarang> ok
[21:11:05] <yngwin> anything else on point 1?
[21:11:18] <yngwin> then 2. split ebuild problems
[21:11:22] <spatz> so 5 people are doing the same change now :)
[21:11:27] <yngwin> status of discussion with portage team about problems caused by split ebuilds
[21:11:40] <pesa_> ah wait please
[21:11:46] <pesa_> on point 1
[21:11:49] <yngwin> yes?
[21:12:00] <pesa_> please be careful when switching ebuilds to qt4-r2
[21:12:05] <yngwin> of course
[21:12:11] <pesa_> i saw a QA notice yesterday on qt-creator
[21:12:43] <pesa_> var/tmp/portage/dev-util/qt-creator-1.3.1/temp/environment: line 2575: qt4_src_prepare: command not found
[21:12:46] <pesa_> this one
[21:13:00] <hwoarang> i ll fix it
[21:13:11] <pesa_> great thanks
[21:13:23] <spatz> fixed qt4-r2
[21:13:44] <yngwin> ok great
[21:13:49] <ssuominen> I still think qt4-r2 should have inherited qt4 to gain the eqmake4 command so old ebuilds wouldn't have to be touched
[21:14:05] <hwoarang> ssuominen: we discussed this before
[21:14:11] <hwoarang> eqmake4 is not the same as qt4
[21:15:17] <ssuominen> Well I just find the exported functions annoying :)
[21:15:26] *** Joins: _pesa_ (~Pesa@host91-174-dynamic.244-95-r.retail.telecomitalia.it)
[21:15:51] *** Quits: hwoarang (~hwoarang@athedsl-405537.home.otenet.gr) (Read error: No route to host)
[21:15:54] *** Joins: ABCD_ (~ABCD@pool-72-86-43-250.clppva.fios.verizon.net)
[21:15:56] <yngwin> well, we decided to move all ebuilds over to qt4-r2 eventually, so
[21:16:14] *** Joins: hwoarang (~hwoarang@athedsl-405537.home.otenet.gr)
[21:16:31] <yngwin> wired: point 2, did you ever start that discussion with portage team?
[21:16:36] <wired> i did
[21:16:38] <wired> they didn't
[21:16:44] <hwoarang> sorry. network issues
[21:16:44] <yngwin> ah i c
[21:16:57] <wired> i sent that email about a month ago
[21:16:59] <wired> no replies
[21:17:10] <_pesa_> :(
[21:17:11] *** ABCD is now known as Guest80
[21:17:11] *** ABCD_ is now known as ABCD
[21:17:39] <yngwin> ok, i'll see if i can get some answer out of them
[21:17:40] * ABCD is annoyed at his network connection
[21:18:15] <yngwin> anything else about point 2?
[21:19:11] <yngwin> 3. einfo overload
[21:19:14] *** Quits: Guest80 (~ABCD@pool-72-86-43-250.clppva.fios.verizon.net) (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[21:19:29] <yngwin> > once the faq is written, we will simplify the qt-core einfo even more.
[21:20:28] <yngwin> ok, i still need to do the faq, so is to be done later
[21:20:29] *** Quits: hwoarang (~hwoarang@athedsl-405537.home.otenet.gr) (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[21:20:54] <spatz> you can start small and we'll all chip in
[21:20:57] <yngwin> but Qt is now guaranteeing binary compatibility, so i think we will see less of those issues
[21:21:03] <spatz> on gitorious it's easy
[21:21:04] *** Joins: hwoarang (~hwoarang@athedsl-405537.home.otenet.gr)
[21:21:11] <hwoarang> meh
[21:21:18] <yngwin> spatz: i tried the other day, but i couldnt make a new page
[21:21:36] <yngwin> i'll try again after the meeting
[21:21:37] *** Quits: pesa_ (~Pesa@host211-12-dynamic.49-82-r.retail.telecomitalia.it) (Ping timeout: 480 seconds)
[21:21:49] <yngwin> otherwise i'll just do it in git
[21:22:27] <yngwin> ah, i was looking at the wrong page. 3 = documentation
[21:23:06] <yngwin> so yes, if i cant (again) make a new page in the gitorious wiki, i'll just put it under /Documentation/ in the overlay
[21:23:25] <yngwin> anything else on this point?
[21:23:47] <hwoarang> i guess not
[21:23:57] <yngwin> 4. remaining qt3 ebuilds
[21:24:07] <yngwin> https://bugs.gentoo.org/283429
[21:24:25] <yngwin> we are making progress, with much thanks to ssuominen as well
[21:24:41] <hwoarang> indeed
[21:24:47] <hwoarang> our work is pretty much done
[21:25:01] <hwoarang> we are either waiting for slacking maintainers or slacking arch members
[21:25:01] <hwoarang> :P
[21:25:15] <yngwin> i am still going through http://tinderbox.dev.gentoo.org/misc/rindex/x11-libs/qt and finding packages that have not been added as blockers to our tracker
[21:27:05] <yngwin> but indeed the biggest issue now is to get those packages stable that still need to be marked stable
[21:27:14] <yngwin> most importantly scribus and mythtv
[21:27:22] <hwoarang> yes
[21:27:30] <hwoarang> should we repoke them?
[21:27:41] <yngwin> i just asked cardoe today about mythtv
[21:27:49] <yngwin> he is waiting for deps to be marked stable
[21:28:06] <yngwin> i asked him to add those as blockers to 299222
[21:28:12] <yngwin> but maybe we could help him
[21:29:23] <yngwin> what are your ideas about how to speed up this process? how can we help arches to get there in time?
[21:29:30] <hwoarang> errr
[21:29:41] <hwoarang> arches are fine
[21:29:43] <hwoarang> sparc isnt
[21:29:58] <hwoarang> i doubt there are many open bugs for amd64 or x86
[21:30:10] <hwoarang> i am trying to get things done for amd64 at least
[21:30:34] <yngwin> someone should make a shortlist of packages where we are waiting for a stabilization
[21:30:49] <hwoarang> ok I will 
[21:31:36] <yngwin> i suggest we will poke arches once a week for the remaining 4 weeks about these bugs
[21:31:38] <tampakrap> i'll help
[21:32:02] *** _pesa_ is now known as pesa_
[21:32:16] <hwoarang> ok then
[21:32:58] <spatz> 5?
[21:33:04] <yngwin> are there any other packages that need special attention?
[21:33:29] <hwoarang> let me see
[21:34:14] <hwoarang> no
[21:34:31] <pesa_> the removal of qt3 USE flag from djvu was reverted...why?
[21:34:46] <yngwin> because the maintainer is stubborn
[21:34:49] *** Quits: ABCD (~ABCD@pool-72-86-43-250.clppva.fios.verizon.net) (Read error: Connection reset by peer)
[21:35:11] <pesa_> what is he waiting for?!
[21:35:17] <pesa_> :|
[21:35:49] <spatz> stubborn is one way to describe pva :p
[21:36:43] *** Joins: ABCD (~ABCD@pool-72-86-43-250.clppva.fios.verizon.net)
[21:36:44] <yngwin> he'll just have to put up with it when we mask qt:3
[21:36:57] <ssuominen> yngwin: old qtwvdialer can be dropped btw
[21:36:59] <spatz> he didn't comment on the bug, why did he revert it?
[21:37:02] <yngwin> i cant be bothered to argue with him
[21:37:17] <yngwin> because the qt4 version does not have an nsplugin
[21:37:30] <spatz> ah, I see in the ChangeLog
[21:37:32] <spatz> meh
[21:37:39] <ssuominen> or anyone else (i can't commit the change now)
[21:39:42] <yngwin> ok, any other remark wrt qt3?
[21:40:07] <hwoarang> no :)
[21:40:10] <ssuominen> nothing general
[21:40:11] <yngwin> ah about dropping qt3 useflags
[21:40:23] <yngwin> there are several bugs open
[21:40:26] <ssuominen> hwoarang: but you should search bugzie for "qucs", the snapshot is... bad
[21:40:41] <yngwin> i already went in and did some ninja edits (as in djvu)
[21:41:13] <yngwin> if maintainers dont act on the remaining bugs, we should step in, at some point
[21:41:27] <pesa_> yngwin: may i help by attaching patches in bugzilla for those ones (removing qt3 support)?
[21:41:38] <pesa_> since i can't commit :P
[21:41:40] <yngwin> yes please
[21:42:03] <spatz> not only do you may, but you also should :)
[21:42:15] <spatz> (not sure if that was english)
[21:42:26] <yngwin> :)
[21:42:30] <pesa_> spatz: :D
[21:42:35] <hwoarang> ssuominen: after all it is a snapshot
[21:42:45] <hwoarang> but indeed they don't seem alive
[21:42:54] <tampakrap> why pesa_ can't commit and i can? who made those rules?
[21:43:07] <yngwin> coz you're a dev
[21:43:10] <pesa_> heh
[21:43:39] <pesa_> i don't like doing quizzes ;)
[21:43:48] <yngwin> just get it over with
[21:43:50] * ABCD is very annoyed at his connection to the internet (or lack thereof, as the case may be)
[21:43:51] <spatz> long term investment :)
[21:44:07] <pesa_> indeed, i should definitely find some time 
[21:44:24] <yngwin> i know how you feel, it took me 9 months as well
[21:44:32] <yngwin> but look at me now :p
[21:44:50] <yngwin> ok, let's move on
[21:45:06] <yngwin> 5. open bugs
[21:45:06] <yngwin>     * any long-standing bugs that need fixing?
[21:45:40] <yngwin> i think http://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/PriorityBugs needs updating
[21:45:46] <hwoarang> we have some
[21:45:48] <spatz> you mean he'll become dutch? that's dangerous
[21:45:56] <yngwin> 239441 qt-webkit hangs on hppa, needs to be taken upstream
[21:46:01] <yngwin> anyone volunteering?
[21:46:13] <pesa_> spatz: lol
[21:46:24] <hwoarang> yngwin: well I can
[21:46:28] <yngwin> tnx
[21:46:34] <hwoarang> also the exceptions bug is still open
[21:46:42] <yngwin> 240185 qt exceptions <- i think we got an answer there
[21:46:43] <hwoarang> I got an official answer from upstream but we stack there
[21:46:47] <hwoarang> yes
[21:47:06] <yngwin> so can we solve this one?
[21:47:13] <pesa_> i think so
[21:47:44] <yngwin> who?
[21:47:56] <hwoarang> who is willing to ?at least gimme a patch since i am totally lost on this bug
[21:48:23] <pesa_> we just have to always enable exceptions, right?
[21:48:31] <hwoarang> yes
[21:48:45] <pesa_> in qt4-build.eclass then
[21:48:45] <wired> on all modules?
[21:48:47] <spatz> just remove the -no-exceptions flag, no?
[21:48:58] <pesa_> wired: yep
[21:49:02] <wired> ok i'll fix it
[21:49:07] <yngwin> great
[21:49:19] <yngwin> 251290 qt-sql/postgresql failure
[21:49:32] <hwoarang> wired: fix the eclas on overlay so we can test the live ebuilds first
[21:49:38] <spatz> just remove lines 414-434...
[21:50:08] <yngwin> 251290 is resolved
[21:50:25] <yngwin> 264631 goldendict: has gcc44.patch, live ebuild to be reviewed and added to overlay
[21:50:31] <yngwin> anyone?
[21:50:32] <hwoarang> i will take this
[21:50:34] *** Quits: ssuominen (ssuominen@unk.fi) (Quit: laters)
[21:50:37] <yngwin> great
[21:51:11] <yngwin> 283148 is resolved
[21:51:20] <yngwin> 292337 does qt-webkit require dbus or not? we need someone on a system without dbus to test this!
[21:51:27] <yngwin> wired was gonna do this
[21:51:36] <wired> s/was/is
[21:51:41] <yngwin> yes
[21:51:42] <wired> gimme a break im building the i5 now :P
[21:51:44] <hwoarang> tampakrap: ->http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=296624
[21:51:52] <yngwin> 297299 Qt 4.6.0 stabilization tracker, wait for 4.6.1 release
[21:51:56] <yngwin> we have 4.6.1 now
[21:52:04] *** Joins: j0hu (~quassel@g224152105.adsl.alicedsl.de)
[21:52:05] <yngwin> so we need to crack the blocker bugs
[21:52:06] <spatz> when should we remove 4.6.0, btw?
[21:52:18] <yngwin> no rush
[21:52:22] <hwoarang> not yet
[21:52:32] <yngwin> let's say in a week or 2
[21:52:32] <wired> when the next sec vun hits :P
[21:52:40] <hwoarang> any ideas -> http://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=300594
[21:52:45] <tampakrap> bug 296624 is mine, you can remove qt team from there if you want but it will take some time to get fixed
[21:53:10] <hwoarang> ok
[21:53:13] <yngwin> hwoarang: you want to make that a priority?
[21:53:21] <hwoarang> the QMAKESPEC bug?
[21:53:46] <yngwin> yes
[21:54:01] <hwoarang> i might want to make a playground branch on qting-edge to test it
[21:54:05] <hwoarang> seems valid to me anyway
[21:54:08] <pesa_> the QMAKESPEC bug needs investigation imho
[21:54:11] <yngwin> ok
[21:54:13] <hwoarang> yes
[21:54:15] <pesa_> it's not easy
[21:54:24] <hwoarang> yngwin: please add it to priority list
[21:54:36] <yngwin> you can do that too ;)
[21:54:53] <pesa_> other packages may break if we add the -64 suffix
[21:55:15] <hwoarang> i thought that linux-g++ is a symlink
[21:55:31] <hwoarang> but anyway, i need some time with it
[21:55:43] <pesa_> it is, if i remember correctly
[21:55:45] <yngwin> ok, any other bugs need attention?
[21:56:07] <hwoarang> no
[21:56:11] <yngwin> ok
[21:56:14] <yngwin> 6. #gentoo-qt revisited
[21:56:40] <hwoarang> the one on OFTC or Freenode
[21:56:42] <hwoarang> ?
[21:56:52] <spatz> the same network as the rest of gentoo, I assume
[21:57:02] <yngwin> especially in the light of the recent wave of fail from failnode, i want to propose to make #gentoo-qt on oftc our official channel
[21:57:21] <hwoarang> this way you force users to use two networks
[21:57:42] <hwoarang> i think they wont follow us and poke us on -kde whenever needed
[21:57:47] <ABCD> I thought we were waiting to see if ircd-seven fixes issues with freenode before abandoning them
[21:58:13] <hwoarang> I propose to stay on -qt on Freenode until they move to the new servers
[21:58:14] <tampakrap> i thought that too
[21:58:23] <yngwin> i'm expecting that the switch will lead to more fail, at least in the beginning
[21:58:26] <hwoarang> just give them a final chance
[21:58:49] <wired> im in favor of staying to freenode until gentoo decides to leave
[21:59:05] <spatz> we shouldn't be different than the rest of gentoo
[21:59:10] <wired> or irc seven succeeds
[21:59:10] <yngwin> ok
[21:59:11] <wired> :)
[21:59:45] <wired> most issues are coming from spamming and attacks
[21:59:46] <yngwin> but we'll have the oftc channel for backup when failnode is having troubles again
[21:59:57] <wired> and irc seven looks like a good upgrade
[21:59:59] <spatz> but why have a separate channel? #-kde isn't really crowded
[22:00:35] <hwoarang> -qt doesnt need to be crowded as well
[22:00:36] <yngwin> not really. usually
[22:00:53] <hwoarang> we used to have qt specific discussions more and more often
[22:00:54] <hwoarang> :)
[22:00:55] <wired> well i think that being in -qt doesn't hurt
[22:00:55] <hwoarang> *use
[22:01:04] <wired> we do use it for some qt specific stuff tho
[22:01:11] <yngwin> exactly
[22:01:15] <wired> and occasionally people do drop by
[22:01:24] <wired> its rare, but they do :)
[22:01:26] <hwoarang> they just don't know it exist
[22:01:27] <yngwin> we had some inter-dev chats about 4.6.1 the other day
[22:02:17] <yngwin> personally i like having the extra channel just for qt
[22:02:39] <hwoarang> ok
[22:02:52] <spatz> the question is whether to make it official or not (get Willikins in there, listing it on the site, etc.)
[22:03:08] <spatz> we can hang out there, no need for meeting to do that :)
[22:03:24] <yngwin> yes
[22:03:46] <yngwin> so what do you guys think about making it official?
[22:04:03] <spatz> I think we're better off with people coming to #-kde for questions, there are more people and a bigger chance for them to get answers
[22:04:36] <wired> i say we hold this one off till the next meeting
[22:04:42] <yngwin> ok
[22:04:53] <tampakrap> we can make it official but not leave from #-kde (talking to qt-only folks)
[22:04:57] <yngwin> let's just have it as a hang-out for qt devs for now
[22:05:02] <hwoarang> qt is a separate project
[22:05:06] <spatz> great
[22:05:09] <hwoarang> so it is good to have its own channel
[22:05:11] <hwoarang> anyway :)
[22:05:13] <spatz> not every project as a separate channel
[22:05:14] <ABCD> do we want to get Willikins in there anyway?
[22:05:15] <yngwin> we will discuss it again next time
[22:05:25] <spatz> getting willikins is nice, yes
[22:05:31] <yngwin> yes indeed
[22:05:33] <spatz> we need to talk to robbat for that?
[22:05:37] <yngwin> yes
[22:05:54] <yngwin> ok last point on agendA
[22:05:58] <yngwin> 7. make raster on by default in live ebuilds
[22:06:07] <yngwin> i say yes
[22:06:15] <spatz> me too
[22:06:26] <wired> i haven't tested it lately so i cant say
[22:06:27] <spatz> just tested it on another with 4.6.1, it's awesome
[22:06:37] <yngwin> hwoarang?
[22:06:48] <wired> from my last tests i'd say no, but its been some time, so whatever you people say :)
[22:07:03] <tampakrap> can we also hold this off until next meeting? i need to test it too
[22:07:13] <hwoarang> my only objection is that some ppl ( as I do ) use qt live for development. I want the latest source available but no extra shiny stuff
[22:07:24] <hwoarang> from this point of view, I say no
[22:07:38] <yngwin> ok, let's leave it for now and discuss it again next time
[22:07:52] <yngwin> anything else?
[22:08:12] <tampakrap> members?
[22:08:18] <hwoarang> ?
[22:08:28] <yngwin> you mean the carlo case
[22:08:31] <spatz> so I'll ask robbat2 on #-dev for Willikins
[22:08:52] <tampakrap> yes
[22:08:54] <hwoarang> yngwin: the carlo case is more than a year old
[22:08:56] <hwoarang> :)
[22:09:08] <hwoarang> no harm to drop him. I bet he doesnt remember he is on Qt anyway :P
[22:09:13] <yngwin> anyone opposed to removing him from the project/herd ?
[22:09:57] <hwoarang> thats a "good to go" i guess
[22:10:14] <yngwin> ok
[22:10:14] <spatz> isn't that rude?
[22:10:17] <pesa_> i guess you tried to contact him and he hasn't answered...
[22:10:40] <hwoarang> spatz: rude?
[22:10:54] <spatz> forcing him out like that
[22:10:54] <yngwin> he has never answered my requests for being at the meeting
[22:10:57] <hwoarang> how come. he is not active for more than a year
[22:11:09] <spatz> oh, didn't realize it was that long
[22:11:16] <yngwin> all devs are required to be at the meeting or let us know they can't make it
[22:12:00] <yngwin> he has never been on one ever since i became member of qt herd
[22:12:23] <pesa_> yes, you're right
[22:12:27] <spatz> ok, so off he goes
[22:12:44] <yngwin> he can always appeal, and we'll reinstate him if he shows up
[22:13:15] <yngwin> ok, anything else before we close?
[22:13:39] <hwoarang> nop
[22:13:51] <tampakrap> can we remove hwoarang too?
[22:14:10] <hwoarang> not yet
[22:14:30] <yngwin> when he's as inactive and non-responsive as carlo, yes
[22:15:03] <yngwin> ok, thank you all
[22:15:06] <yngwin> =============================
