Gentoo Qt project meeting IRC logs 2012-09-05, 1800 – 1937 UTC
Timestamps are UTC+8

[02:00:12] <yngwin> !herd qt
[02:00:13] <willikins> (qt) abcd, hwoarang, johu, kensington, pesa, wired, yngwin
[02:00:19] <yngwin> meeting is about to start
[02:00:29] <yngwin> agenda: https://gitorious.org/gentoo-qt/pages/Meeting20120905
[02:00:42] <yngwin> roll call: who is here?
[02:00:47] -*- kensington here
[02:01:41] <yngwin> ABCD: you here?
[02:02:38] <yngwin> hwoarang, johu, pesa?
[02:03:43] <hwoarang> yeah here
[02:04:20] <yngwin> !seen pesa
[02:04:20] <willikins> yngwin: pesa was last seen 8 hours, 47 minutes and 26 seconds ago, quitting IRC (Quit: Konversation terminated!)
[02:07:01] <yngwin> ok, let's start, pesa will join us later
[02:07:23] <yngwin> lets leave the first point (qt5) for then
[02:07:32] <yngwin> 2. qt4.eclass deprecation
[02:07:53] <yngwin> i dont think we need to do anything about that at this point, still waiting for the last ebuild to leave the tree
[02:08:13] <hwoarang> which one is it?
[02:08:21] <pesa> I can probably follow for the next 5-10 minutes
[02:08:23] <pesa> hi all
[02:08:27] <yngwin> vlc-1
[02:08:31] <hwoarang> i see
[02:09:05] <kensington> waiting on minor archs to stable vlc-2 I see
[02:09:17] <yngwin> anything to add on that?
[02:09:31] <pesa> kensington: yep
[02:09:47] <yngwin> 3. qt4-r2.eclass updates
[02:10:19] <yngwin> we could move the translation handling to l10n.eclass
[02:10:50] <hwoarang> hmm
[02:10:59] <hwoarang> doesn't that mean recursive ebuild fixin?
[02:11:12] <pesa> heh
[02:11:14] <yngwin> yeah but there are only a handful of ebuilds that use that
[02:11:31] <yngwin> several of which i have already fixed
[02:11:37] <hwoarang> i'd prefer to add an ewarn message and deprecate it as we progress
[02:11:44] <pesa> use what?
[02:12:02] <hwoarang> pesa: translations from qt4-r2
[02:12:10] <pesa> ok hmmm
[02:12:11] <pesa> ah the old stuff in qt4-r2 in qt overlay
[02:12:19] <pesa> yeah should be only overlay stuff
[02:12:23] <pesa> no big deal imho
[02:12:28] <hwoarang> is it just the overlay that needs fixin?
[02:12:45] <pesa> I think so
[02:12:52] <yngwin> no, there are a few other ebuilds like smplayer2
[02:13:33] <pesa> how can they use features that are only in the overlay?
[02:13:34] <hwoarang> yngwin: i still think we should deprecate it instead of just removing it
[02:13:55] <yngwin> pesa: the vars are in the tree too
[02:13:56] <hwoarang> pesa: didn't we moved translations to qt4-r2 when we merged qt4-r2 and qt4-edge eclasses?
[02:14:18] <pesa> hwoarang: no afaik
[02:14:24] <pesa> yngwin: ah the vars, right
[02:14:26] <hwoarang> ah
[02:14:39] <pesa> well what changed? the name?
[02:14:56] <kensington> langs -> plangs
[02:15:03] <pesa> or the semantics too?
[02:15:07] <kensington> s/plangs/plocales/
[02:15:21] <yngwin> and the fact that there is distinction between long and short forms
[02:15:22] <pesa> if it's just the var name it should be easy to fix
[02:15:26] <yngwin> no*
[02:15:38] <pesa> oh
[02:15:39] <yngwin> no more LANGSLONG
[02:15:57] <yngwin> which led to bug 429384
[02:15:58] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/429384 "media-video/smplayer-0.8.0 LINGUAS=ru should install Russian locale"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; RESO, INVA; pinkbyte:qt
[02:15:58] <pesa> ok we can provide backward compat for a while I guess
[02:15:59] <pesa> should be easy
[02:16:33] <yngwin> yeah i already started on doing sth like that
[02:16:42] <yngwin> but holidays intervened :)
[02:17:01] <pesa> so you're doing the work? :)
[02:17:11] <yngwin> i dont think anyone else is :p
[02:17:23] <pesa> indeed
[02:17:30] <yngwin> but its low priority
[02:17:39] <pesa> yep
[02:17:41] <pesa> guys, I'll be back in about 15 minutes, sorry
[02:17:44] <yngwin> ok
[02:17:57] <yngwin> i need to push some cairo fixes first, and split up razorqt
[02:18:40] <yngwin> but we're agreed to move forward in that, i take it
[02:18:54] <hwoarang> ok
[02:19:01] <kensington> ++
[02:19:05] <yngwin> good
[02:19:13] <yngwin> 4. Open bugs
[02:19:31] <yngwin> i was planning to take a good look at the list today, but real life happened
[02:19:37] <yngwin> (my phone died)
[02:19:51] <yngwin> so let's see
[02:20:00] <yngwin> #277711 dev-python/PyQt4 fails to build on systems with improved multilib support: not in a hurry, let’s see how multilib progresses
[02:20:20] <yngwin> i dont think there's much progress there?
[02:20:46] <yngwin> hwoarang: what do you think
[02:20:52] <hwoarang> no progress
[02:21:00] <hwoarang> i'd rather wait for portage multilib support
[02:21:03] <yngwin> so wait and see again
[02:21:10] <kensington> hwoarang: I agree
[02:21:18] <yngwin> #388207 [qt overlay] Allow building qt-webkit from standalone repo – kensington will have a go, needed for qt5 anyway
[02:21:22] <yngwin> well?
[02:21:23] <kensington> it seems to be a moving target at the moment
[02:22:06] <kensington> the last time I looked at it the required deps were not yet packaged
[02:22:26] <yngwin> hm, can we get a list of those? are there bugs?
[02:23:09] <kensington> just some other qt5 modules afaict
[02:23:16] <yngwin> ok
[02:24:06] <yngwin> then bug #427782 x11-libs/qt-*-4.8.2: doesn’t respect CXXFLAGS – what should we do about optimised-qmake?
[02:24:08] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/427782 "x11-libs/qt-*-4.8.2: doesn't respect CXXFLAGS"; Gentoo Linux, Eclasses and Profiles; IN_P; wbrana:qt
[02:24:20] <kensington> wrt qt4, the ebuild currently installs a plugin that is only in the qt repo and not the standalone webkit one
[02:24:48] <hwoarang> optimized-qmake makes no sense to me
[02:24:59] <hwoarang> i'd say stick with the default one
[02:25:11] <kensington> the default one is to ignore cflags
[02:25:41] <hwoarang> basically I agree with your last comment there
[02:27:10] <kensington> my preference is to dump the use flag and just use user cflags for everything
[02:27:35] <yngwin> yeah that would be the gentoo way, unless there is a good reason not to
[02:28:02] <kensington> pesa seemed to be hesitant though so I'm not sure
[02:29:32] <yngwin> well, lets see what he says later then
[02:30:15] <yngwin> ok, bug 431748
[02:30:16] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/431748 "media-video/avidemux-2.6_pre snapshot packaging"; Gentoo Linux, Applications; UNCO; andrey.aleksandrovich:qt
[02:30:25] <yngwin> anyone wanting to take that on?
[02:30:40] <hwoarang> no
[02:30:42] <hwoarang> no snapshots
[02:30:47] <hwoarang> just a live ebuild and were are fine
[02:31:07] <hwoarang> i can do that. basically improve the one found in that overlay. Checked the headers, it is plain gplv2 so i can just copy it
[02:31:14] <pesa> I'm back
[02:31:19] <yngwin> fine with me, but that still means someone needs to look at the live ebuild
[02:32:24] <yngwin> so hwoarang?
[02:34:18] <yngwin> pesa: we were discussing bug 427782 - what are your thoughts?
[02:34:21] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/427782 "x11-libs/qt-*-4.8.2: doesn't respect CXXFLAGS"; Gentoo Linux, Eclasses and Profiles; IN_P; wbrana:qt
[02:35:09] <pesa> oh
[02:35:11] <hwoarang> yngwin: i will take care of it
[02:35:21] <hwoarang> i mean the avidemux bug
[02:35:34] <yngwin> yeah good
[02:35:48] <pesa> as I said in the bug, the first patch by kensington can be committed
[02:36:40] <yngwin> what about dropping optimised-qmake useflag, and always honor users flags?
[02:36:42] <pesa> the second part I'd like to have a closer look, but removing USE=optimized-qmake seems to make sense
[02:37:01] <pesa> I'd like to ask upstream why they are forcing -g for qmake though
[02:37:20] <yngwin> alright
[02:37:26] <pesa> will do asap
[02:37:35] <pesa> (and it's the same in qt5 btw)
[02:37:55] <yngwin> what about bug 428256
[02:37:59] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/428256 "dev-libs/qjson-0.7.1-r1 problem with serialization QStringList need mask package"; Gentoo Linux, Library; CONF; zordon13:qt
[02:38:16] <pesa> so kensington go ahead with the patch I ack'ed ;)
[02:38:28] <kensington> ack
[02:38:33] <pesa> ty
[02:38:44] <pesa> yngwin: dunno, other distros haven't backported the commit
[02:39:06] <pesa> and dunno if it's safe to backport either
[02:39:23] <yngwin> so a snapshot seems the better option
[02:39:27] <hwoarang> yeah
[02:39:30] <pesa> yep, or ask upstream to release
[02:39:38] <yngwin> even better
[02:40:09] <pesa> indeed
[02:40:14] <yngwin> who wants to take care of that?
[02:40:42] <pesa> I can do it
[02:41:01] <yngwin> ok
[02:41:09] <yngwin> then bug 410911
[02:41:11] <willikins> yngwin: https://bugs.gentoo.org/410911 "net-im/psi-0.15_rc1 version bump"; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; CONF; pesa:pva
[02:41:22] <yngwin> no response from maintainer, so we can take over
[02:41:51] <pesa> sure
[02:41:54] <yngwin> anyone?
[02:42:11] <pesa> I'd do it, but I don't have time to go over all psi+ patches
[02:42:15] <yngwin> if i have time, i want to take a look, but i have other things higher up my todo list ;)
[02:42:17] <hwoarang> pva is not particularly active
[02:42:26] <pesa> and I don't care about psi+ in fact
[02:42:34] <hwoarang> i dont care either
[02:42:51] <yngwin> i know there are users that do
[02:42:59] <yngwin> so i'd like us to offer that option
[02:43:06] <pesa> true
[02:43:07] <hwoarang> i am happy to relegate it to proxy maintainers
[02:43:18] <pesa> that's an option
[02:43:31] <yngwin> yeah, i think nikoli is interested in this package
[02:44:11] <hwoarang> i will ask him
[02:44:17] <yngwin> ok
[02:44:17] <hwoarang> see if he interested to pick it up
[02:45:17] <yngwin> is there anything else in the bug list we need to discuss?
[02:45:46] <kensington> how about bug #326449?
[02:45:47] <willikins> kensington: https://bugs.gentoo.org/326449 "media-video/smplayer: local denial of service"; Gentoo Security, Vulnerabilities; CONF; throw_away_2002:security
[02:46:24] <kensington> the reporter says that upstream claims it as a feature
[02:46:26] <hwoarang> not sure if he ever reported that upstream
[02:46:31] <hwoarang> ah sorry missed that
[02:46:37] <kensington> and I note that debian does not apply any patches to that packagte
[02:47:28] <hwoarang> if upstream doesn't want to fix that then what can we do?
[02:47:40] <yngwin> we can turn off single-instance by default
[02:47:52] <yngwin> leave it up to the user to enable if they want
[02:48:09] <hwoarang> this needs to be reported to oss-security
[02:48:11] <hwoarang> fwiw
[02:48:28] <hwoarang> yngwin: how would that fix it?sorry not familiar with the details
[02:48:39] <yngwin> see comment #1
[02:49:09] <yngwin> apparently its the single-instance feature that turns on this server
[02:49:41] <hwoarang> is there a global config file for smplayer?
[02:49:49] -*- hwoarang is in win7 at the moment
[02:50:07] <pesa> shame on you :P
[02:51:08] <kensington> not sure, but I'm sure it'd be possible to patch the source to default to off it not
[02:51:14] <yngwin> i dont think there is
[02:51:24] <yngwin> i think we can patch the source
[02:51:38] <yngwin> there must be default settings somewhere
[02:51:50] <hwoarang> then we will have to carry this patch forever
[02:51:51] <pesa> of course :)
[02:52:06] <yngwin> well, maybe i can convince upstream
[02:52:49] <hwoarang> that sounds better
[02:52:57] <yngwin> we sort of know each other
[02:53:53] <yngwin> anyone up for looking into making a patch?
[02:54:07] <kensington> I can do that
[02:54:14] <yngwin> good
[02:54:35] <pesa> can't they use dbus with proper access control?
[02:55:03] <yngwin> that would be nice
[02:55:12] <pesa> that should be enough for "single instance"
[02:55:45] <yngwin> ok, any other bugs?
[02:55:47] <pesa> which should be "per-user instance" in fact
[02:56:01] <pesa> bug 430308
[02:56:05] <willikins> pesa: https://bugs.gentoo.org/430308 "dev-util/qt-creator-2.5.0: cannot find/use tool chain"; Gentoo Linux, Development; UNCO; johannes.geiss:hwoarang
[02:56:19] <pesa> no idea, hwoarang?
[02:56:29] <pesa> report upstream?
[02:56:30] <hwoarang> no idea. i was planning to have a look this weekend
[02:56:36] <hwoarang> at least try to reproduce it
[02:56:56] <pesa> maybe it's ppc specific
[02:57:08] <hwoarang> yeah let me have a look
[02:57:17] <pesa> ok
[02:57:18] <pesa> ty
[02:57:21] <hwoarang> what hte proposed method for reporting qt bugs nowadays?
[02:57:29] <hwoarang> gerrit? ml? is the a bugzilla at qt-projecT?
[02:58:07] <pesa> gerrit is for patches
[02:58:19] <pesa> you can use the qt-creator ML or the jira instance
[02:58:31] <pesa> here https://bugreports.qt-project.org/secure/Dashboard.jspa
[02:58:35] <hwoarang> ok
[02:58:57] <hwoarang> yeah i'd rather report it there. i am not in the ML
[02:59:22] <pesa> fine with me
[02:59:34] <yngwin> ok, lets get back to point 1: Qt5 progress
[02:59:39] <hwoarang> w00t
[02:59:43] <yngwin> pesa, where are we?
[02:59:44] <pesa> lol
[02:59:46] <hwoarang> lets give a pesa++ for all the work
[02:59:53] <yngwin> yeah you're the man
[02:59:59] <pesa> thank you guys
[03:00:07] <pesa> still a lot to do on tests
[03:00:07] <hwoarang> i consider myself a buildbot
[03:00:12] <kensington> pesa++
[03:00:35] <hwoarang> however i've no idea how the modules are interconnected
[03:00:37] <pesa> some of them have many deps, some require network, some require special setups
[03:00:45] <hwoarang> i'd like to have an idea, possibly via a chart/diagram/something
[03:01:06] <pesa> sounds good
[03:01:23] <hwoarang> probably good item for the wiki
[03:01:28] <yngwin> yeah
[03:01:32] <hwoarang> so we can start structuring the HowTo-Qt5 ebuild guide
[03:01:38] <hwoarang> otherwise i am not much of a help here
[03:01:47] <pesa> I'll draw something later
[03:01:52] <hwoarang> thanks a lot
[03:01:53] <yngwin> how much still needs to be done in terms of modules to be covered?
[03:01:57] <hwoarang> that will get us onboard quickly
[03:02:08] <pesa> the only major module missing is qt-webkit
[03:02:30] <pesa> which I think kensington was having a look at
[03:03:02] <yngwin> <kensington> the last time I looked at it the required deps were not yet packaged
[03:03:14] <pesa> uhm
[03:03:28] <pesa> sorry, you should have pinged me about that
[03:03:40] <pesa> what deps specifically?
[03:04:10] <kensington> I don't exactly remember, we were talking about it in #-qt a while back
[03:05:01] <yngwin> ok, i'm sure you guys can figure that out, so lets get it done :)
[03:05:02] <pesa> sorry, my fault
[03:05:56] <pesa> we're also missing qt-multimedia from the qt5-essentials set, but it's low priority because I don't know of any consumers
[03:06:05] <yngwin> iirc we need to talk about paths or naming of binaries
[03:06:16] <pesa> yes
[03:06:27] <pesa> I had a look at the beta1 rpm
[03:06:37] <pesa> they just don't care about "slotting"
[03:06:46] <yngwin> how can they not?
[03:06:56] <pesa> it's a WIP I guess
[03:07:08] <yngwin> are they running qt5 in a vm or something?
[03:07:10] <pesa> but they just overwrite qt4 stuff for now
[03:07:15] <hwoarang> lol
[03:07:19] <yngwin> anyway
[03:07:22] <pesa> lol yes
[03:07:42] <kensington> hey don't laugh, I was fighting with a package the other day where the default location for qt deps was ~/ ...
[03:07:42] <yngwin> i think we should go for /usr/bin/qmake{4,5} and so on
[03:08:03] <pesa> yes I think I agree
[03:08:14] <hwoarang> yeah well
[03:08:27] <hwoarang> we should start working on the eselect module
[03:08:33] <hwoarang> so new repo :)
[03:08:40] <pesa> there's a bigger problem though :P
[03:08:45] <pesa> the .pc files
[03:09:06] <hwoarang> explain please :)
[03:09:07] <pesa> the filename is not versioned
[03:09:23] <pesa> so you end up with /usr/lib/pkgconfig/QtCore.pc for both qt4 and qt5
[03:09:38] <yngwin> can we version them?
[03:10:02] <pesa> I don't think so, you'll break reverse deps checking for QtCore
[03:10:07] <hwoarang> yeah
[03:10:17] <hwoarang> afaik pkgconfig does not understand names-versions
[03:10:23] <hwoarang> just <filename>
[03:10:36] <pesa> yes, the version is *inside* the file
[03:10:52] <hwoarang> pesa: this will likely affect all distros
[03:10:57] <kensington> what are upstreams doing to link to qt5?
[03:10:58] <hwoarang> shall we move this to upstream ML ?
[03:11:15] <yngwin> i do see gtk+-2.0.pc
[03:11:18] <pesa> kensington: if you use qmake you don't care about pkgconfig so...
[03:11:22] <yngwin> i dont know what gtk+-3 uses
[03:11:40] <pesa> hwoarang: I think so
[03:12:00] <hwoarang> hmm
[03:12:02] <hwoarang> actually
[03:12:08] <hwoarang> does upstream care about multiple Qts installed?
[03:12:10] <pesa> yngwin: yes but that's what gtk upstream does, so all consumers already know they have to check for gtk+-2.0
[03:12:19] <pesa> hwoarang: well actually no... :/
[03:12:27] <pesa> hwoarang: but we can try anyway
[03:12:32] <hwoarang> pesa: this is stupid
[03:12:48] <hwoarang> what do they expecT? everybody switch from 4.8.2 to 5.0(final) overnight?
[03:13:02] <pesa> I'm with you
[03:13:09] <Sput> pesa: quassel misses qt-phonon, qt-linugisttools and qt-dbustools
[03:13:10] <yngwin> there will be a period where we need both
[03:13:10] <hwoarang> i see
[03:13:38] <pesa> Sput: phonon?!
[03:13:38] <hwoarang> it just makes no sense
[03:13:52] <hwoarang> although i dont remember if they supported both qt3/qt4 at that time
[03:13:53] <pesa> Sput: I don't think it still exists in qt5
[03:14:03] <yngwin> i think we should version them and force consumers to look for the versioned files
[03:14:07] <pesa> hwoarang: they did not
[03:14:13] <hwoarang> yngwin: we can't do that
[03:14:22] <hwoarang> people will write their build systems based on what most distros do
[03:14:26] <pesa> indeed
[03:14:35] <hwoarang> if we follow our own path then we will need to patch every rdep out there
[03:14:38] <yngwin> we are apparently the first one to do this, so
[03:14:44] <yngwin> time to make policies :)
[03:14:50] <hwoarang> this poses a lot of maintainance overhead
[03:14:57] <hwoarang> we wont be able to keep up
[03:15:12] <hwoarang> i'd suggest try to (at least) discuss it with upstream
[03:15:14] <Sput> pesa: well, it existed in my snapshot I tested quassel-qt5 against :) granted, upstream keeps confusing me, so it might have been removed since
[03:15:16] <yngwin> well, lets ask upstream how they see this
[03:15:28] <hwoarang> i m sure other distros will participate in that discussion
[03:15:35] <pesa> hwoarang++
[03:15:48] -*- hwoarang thinks it is time to subscribe to that ML
[03:15:50] <pesa> Sput: hmmm I think they are just pulling kde phonon
[03:16:36] <hwoarang> pesa: could you start a discussion with them?
[03:16:49] <pesa> Sput: I can't see phonon here http://qt-project.org/wiki/Qt-Add-ons-Modules
[03:17:02] <pesa> hwoarang: sure
[03:17:06] <hwoarang> maybe BCC qt@ if you do so we can keep an eye on it
[03:17:09] <Sput> regarding the Qt binaries, there was a discussion about renaming them upstream quite a while ago, and I believe the consensus was that this is distro task, not upstream task (also pointing out that distros did the same thing for  3 -> 4)
[03:17:12] <hwoarang> i'll subscribe anyway
[03:17:19] <Sput> pesa: re phonon; maybe. it's not critical for quassel either (we can figure this out later), but the other two packages are actually required :)
[03:17:28] <pesa> Sput: correct, I remember the same
[03:17:51] <pesa> Sput: ok thanks ;)
[03:18:06] <hwoarang> maybe rename them to qmake-qt4 qmake-qt5 to be "debian" compatible?
[03:18:10] <Sput> sorrry, can't really chat currently as I'm sitting in a train with tons of lag
[03:18:22] <pesa> np
[03:18:22] <hwoarang> so Qt devs can develop their apps in both distros without problems :)
[03:18:36] <yngwin> if that is how debian wants to go
[03:18:44] <Sput> hwoarang: aesthetically I agree on that naming, I like qmake-qt5 much more than qmake5
[03:18:55] <hwoarang> afaik they use qmake-qt4 right now
[03:19:00] <pesa> yep
[03:19:11] <yngwin> i think we should open a discussion with distros too
[03:19:20] <hwoarang> how can we reach them all :P
[03:19:30] <pesa> Sput has a point wrt the name, qmake version is 2.something actually
[03:19:31] <yngwin> just the major ones
[03:19:50] <pesa> so qmake-qtX is better
[03:20:15] <yngwin> i dislike that, but whatever works
[03:20:30] <hwoarang> shouldn't matter to us
[03:20:34] <hwoarang> in packaging level
[03:20:37] <Sput> and have an eselected qmake that points to -qt4 or qt5 (and is ignored by eclasses)?
[03:20:37] <yngwin> indeed
[03:20:38] <hwoarang> as we will use eqmake
[03:20:45] <yngwin> Sput: indeed
[03:20:47] <hwoarang> it is just for Qt devs
[03:21:01] <yngwin> we will use eqmake{4,5}
[03:21:06] <hwoarang> yes
[03:21:26] <pesa> awesome
[03:21:42] <yngwin> so we will need a qt5 eclass for building apps
[03:22:06] <hwoarang> yeah
[03:22:13] <hwoarang> shouldn't be much different than qt4-r2
[03:22:26] <pesa> I suggest qt5-utils.eclass
[03:22:35] <Sput> from the POV of someone developing with Qt, there's not much difference between 4 and 5
[03:22:42] <pesa> similar to {autotools,cmake,scons,...}-utils
[03:22:45] <hwoarang> will there be more utils there besies eqmake5?
[03:23:03] <Sput> so since development works the same pretty much, I think the eclass will look the same pretty much
[03:23:11] <pesa> yes
[03:23:43] <Sput> <Sput> svuorela: how is Debian going to name the Qt5 binaries? qmake-qt5 etc?
[03:23:43] <Sput> <svuorela> Sput: prolly
[03:24:00] <yngwin> alright
[03:24:08] <pesa> oh they don't know yet :)
[03:24:11] <yngwin> anything else we need to discuss about qt5?
[03:24:30] <pesa> no afaik
[03:24:40] <yngwin> ok, then last: open floor
[03:24:42] <hwoarang> do we have any consumers
[03:24:45] <hwoarang> for qt5?
[03:24:49] <yngwin> quassel
[03:24:50] <hwoarang> so we can start working on the eclass?
[03:24:55] <hwoarang> quassel-9999?
[03:25:23] <yngwin> i know qupzilla and razorqt are looking at it too, but not all the way there yet
[03:25:38] <hwoarang> so quassel can be built with both Qts?
[03:25:40] <hwoarang> interesting
[03:25:44] <yngwin> both will have new releases soon btw
[03:26:02] <Sput> maybe eselecting is dangerous. looks like upstream's FindQt4.cmake will prefer 'qmake' over 'qmake4' and 'qmake-qt4'
[03:26:22] <hwoarang> Sput: qmake will point to qmake-qt5
[03:26:26] <hwoarang> or qmake-qt4
[03:26:29] <hwoarang> whatever you have selected
[03:26:48] <hwoarang> so it should JustWork(TM)
[03:27:22] <hwoarang> clearly if a package does not support Qt5, the deps should be fixed
[03:28:34] <yngwin> oh one thing: do we want to continue using gitorious wiki for our agenda, or should we use wiki.gentoo.org ?
[03:28:58] <pesa> gitorious sucks
[03:29:00] <hwoarang> yngwin: isn't the w.g.o too official for agenda?
[03:29:10] <hwoarang> dunno i dont mind
[03:29:11] <pesa> it was slow as hell yesterday
[03:29:15] <Sput> hwoarang: well, at least it could a while ago
[03:29:16] <Sput> I couldn't test if it still builds against the beta since I'm missing the afforementioned packages
[03:29:16] <Sput> hwoarang: yes, but then the eclasses have to make sure that FindQt4.cmake will use the correct one even if the other one is eselected
[03:29:16] <Sput> gah lag again
[03:29:17] <Sput> if you want to test quassel (from git), this is the cmake magic I use: cmake -DQT=/usr/qt5 -DWITH_QT5=1 -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/usr/lib64/qt5/cmake -DWITH_PHONON=0 ..
[03:29:20] <yngwin> no, we can have Project:Qt/...
[03:29:56] <pesa> yngwin: sounds better than gitorious
[03:29:58] <kensington> +1 for Project:Qt
[03:29:58] <hwoarang> Sput: god point
[03:30:00] <Sput> the CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH is needed to let cmake find the .cmake files Qt5 installs (these are now part of Qt5, not cmake anymore)
[03:30:02] <yngwin> kde and ruby projects are already using that for maintenance related stuff
[03:30:02] <hwoarang> *good
[03:30:06] <pesa> at least we have control over the infrastructure
[03:30:19] <pesa> and I can kick tampakrap if it's down :P
[03:30:22] <Sput> we might consider putting that stuff somewhere in CMake's default search path
[03:30:42] <hwoarang> it would be great if that could be fixed in the cmake level
[03:30:48] <yngwin> the only thing going for gitorious is 1) it looks pretty, and 2) you can use git even for editting the wiki
[03:30:54] <hwoarang> however, ive no idea how to do it
[03:31:31] <Sput> the cmake docs for find_package explain the search paths
[03:31:55] <pesa> Sput: I can move the qt5 cmake files to /usr/lib64/cmake I guess, or will they collide?
[03:32:15] <pesa> (that should be the standard path)
[03:33:24] <pesa> just FYI, qt 4.8.3 should be released very soon
[03:33:33] <yngwin> :)
[03:34:07] <yngwin> ok, if there isnt anything else, then lets conclude the meeting
[03:34:41] <hwoarang> ok
[03:34:57] <pesa> thank you guys
[03:35:11] <Sput> pesa: sounds sane, other packages do the same
[03:35:14] <Sput> ok, I'll be arriving in Ulm soon. should be able to chat a bit more easily in 45 mins or so
[03:35:42] <pesa> :)
[03:35:50] <Sput> pesa: and please ping me once the missing packages are available, so I can fix quassel to compile if needed :)
[03:35:56] <pesa> Sput: sure
[03:37:30] <Sput> thx for all the effort btw, we should be among the first distros again to ship that stuff :D
[03:37:30] <yngwin> good night peeps
