Jul 16 12:55:56 <seemant>	so I guess the purpose of this meeting is to kind of map out what needs to be done and who wants to do what
Jul 16 12:56:13 <seemant>	ideally we all leave this meeting with "something to do"
Jul 16 12:56:55 <seemant>	first item I would like to put forth is this Developer Handbook idea
Jul 16 12:57:12 <klieber>	seemant: can I ask a question first?
Jul 16 12:57:16 <seemant>	please
Jul 16 12:57:39 <klieber>	seemant: can you explain what devrel is intended to do, as a project?  I have a vague idea, but I'm not sure we're all on the same page
Jul 16 12:57:59 <klieber>	just a high-level overview of what the project is about
Jul 16 12:58:22 <seemant>	essentially provide the documents and structure to ease relations both between developers and between the developer communities
Jul 16 12:58:45 <seemant>	those communities would be official gentoo developers and advanced users and prospective developers
Jul 16 12:58:58 <klieber>	ok, that's perfect.
Jul 16 12:59:09 <klieber>	just looking for the context of this discussion :)
Jul 16 12:59:22 *	klieber goes back to his corner now
Jul 16 12:59:24 <seemant>	klieber: the official page is proj/en/devrel (work in progress)
Jul 16 12:59:50 <seemant>	so anyway, coming to the Developer Handbook
Jul 16 13:00:20 <seemant>	the idea there is to have a single place/portal for developer related documents
Jul 16 13:01:00 <seemant>	everything from recruitment policy, training guidelines, etiquette guidelines to perhaps more tehnical stuff like cvs/repoman usage and ebuild standars
Jul 16 13:01:17 <seemant>	(the last two I'm not completely sure about, but seem to be natural follow-throughs)
Jul 16 13:01:23 <seemant>	thoughts?
Jul 16 13:01:34 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to avenj
Jul 16 13:01:36 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to Brandy
Jul 16 13:01:38 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to g2boojum
Jul 16 13:01:40 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to klieber
Jul 16 13:01:41 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to fava
Jul 16 13:01:43 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to lu_zero
Jul 16 13:02:02 <avenj>	i like it
Jul 16 13:02:03 <klieber>	personally, I think that's a great idea.
Jul 16 13:02:25 <g2boojum>	Sounds reasonable to me, although we need to make sure we don't start a turf war w/ the doc folks (not that that should be a problem).
Jul 16 13:02:36 <lu_zero>	hm
Jul 16 13:02:41 <seemant>	grant: I'm rather hoping it'll be a collaboration with them
Jul 16 13:02:45 <lu_zero>	we should ask the help of the doc folks
Jul 16 13:02:51 <Brandy>	at the moment there are quite a few docs around, they're just a bit fractionated. Being in the same place would be good
Jul 16 13:03:02 <g2boojum>	seemant: I assumed.
Jul 16 13:03:37 <seemant>	now, sven had the idea of a general handbook, which I haven't put too much thought into 
Jul 16 13:03:50 <seemant>	so we know that docs people are at least thinking along similar lines
Jul 16 13:04:00 <seemant>	just that devrel has a narrower focus in that regard
Jul 16 13:04:38 <seemant>	next item: the pseudo-controversial ombudsman project
Jul 16 13:04:51 <seemant>	everyone's familiar with the GLEP about that?
Jul 16 13:05:02 <seemant>	http://www.gentoo.org/proj/en/glep/glep-0007.html
Jul 16 13:05:19 <avenj>	indeed
Jul 16 13:05:27 <g2boojum>	yep :)
Jul 16 13:05:34 <Brandy>	yeah
Jul 16 13:06:13 <seemant>	from notes I've seen on the mailing lists <nudges kurt>, perhaps aspects of it need tweaking?
Jul 16 13:06:27 <klieber>	well, I certainly have some opinions about it...
Jul 16 13:06:35 <klieber>	for the most part, I think it is a good idea...
Jul 16 13:06:52 <klieber>	but I think it either a) doesn't go far enough or b) needs a sister position that handles big picture type stuff.
Jul 16 13:07:08 <klieber>	as I said in my responses, I don't like greasing squeeks
Jul 16 13:07:17 <klieber>	and, in its current form, that's all I think this position does
Jul 16 13:07:20 <klieber>	I'd like to see it do more
Jul 16 13:07:37 <g2boojum>	klieber: If you'll write up a description of "go farther", I'll add it.
Jul 16 13:07:49 <klieber>	g2boojum: not sure I have the best answer to "going farther", tbh
Jul 16 13:08:04 <klieber>	but I'd like to see something that focuses on the underlying issues, instead of the squeeks
Jul 16 13:08:09 <klieber>	 in a nutshell, that's what my concern is
Jul 16 13:08:41 <klieber>	also, if everyone else thinks I'm off my rocker, then I'll happily support the proposal in its current form
Jul 16 13:08:43 <g2boojum>	I agree w/ the big picture, but I think both aspects are important.  We _need_ a pressure valve for squeaks.
Jul 16 13:08:44 <Brandy>	I think an Ombudsman should be looking at ways of avoiding the conflicts in the first place, not just resolving conflicts that do occur
Jul 16 13:09:24 <klieber>	agreed with both statements.
Jul 16 13:09:26 <g2boojum>	Brandy: How does one do that?  I agree it's a good idea, but I'm not sure how to accomplish it.
Jul 16 13:09:31 <klieber>	just not sure how to implement a solution
Jul 16 13:09:35 <klieber>	yeah -- what grant said :)
Jul 16 13:09:43 <Brandy>	Along the lines of identifying overlapping responsibilities, unclear procedures etc
Jul 16 13:10:15 <lu_zero>	brb
Jul 16 13:11:22 <seemant>	grant: Would you like to make a sub-project page for ombudsman in proj/en/devrel?
Jul 16 13:11:48 <seemant>	grant: I think once we start to formalise and use it, it can be tweaked along the way
Jul 16 13:12:07 <g2boojum>	seemant: I can do that, but I'm going to be spending time w/ my wife until next Tuesday.
Jul 16 13:12:44 <seemant>	grant: have a good time :)
Jul 16 13:12:49 <seemant>	grant: next week is cool
Jul 16 13:12:58 <g2boojum>	seemant: Thanks!  
Jul 16 13:13:12 <seemant>	which brings us to a related subproject, viz. user relations
Jul 16 13:13:27 <seemant>	I've asked (yeah I know, I didn't put it up to vote, but :P)
Jul 16 13:13:36 <seemant>	Brandy to be The Ambassador
Jul 16 13:14:07 <seemant>	a lot of the tweaks to that project page came from her, and she brings a good perspective of the user side of things
Jul 16 13:14:35 <klieber>	seemant: what does that position entail?
Jul 16 13:14:56 <seemant>	Brandy: can you provide a high level description?
Jul 16 13:15:01 <g2boojum>	Brandy: Do you have plenipotentiary powers?  *Grin*
Jul 16 13:15:34 <Brandy>	g2boojum: I wish :)
Jul 16 13:16:23 <Brandy>	I think that at the moment there are a lot of users who have trouble finding out about the developer community
Jul 16 13:16:51 <Brandy>	Also they often have lots of suggestions and queries that don't always get answered
Jul 16 13:17:57 <Brandy>	So I think there needs to be some sort of interface or people that can help them find info they need, or put them in touch with people that can help them
Jul 16 13:18:27 <klieber>	Brandy: how are you going to separate out the signal from the noise?
Jul 16 13:18:51 <klieber>	Brandy: meaning I don't think we want to involve the developers every time a user has a problem in #gentoo or on the forums
Jul 16 13:19:09 <klieber>	at least I don't...
Jul 16 13:19:58 <Brandy>	That's a good question. I'm thinking that what User Relations is for - to act as a buffer and ensure the same questions/complaints don't get asked to the same developers over and over
Jul 16 13:20:58 <klieber>	ok
Jul 16 13:22:14 <g2boojum>	Brandy: I'm sorry, I'm not sure I entirely understand.  Right now the idea seems a bit broad, can you give some examples of what the Ambassador would be doing?
Jul 16 13:24:16 <Brandy>	Some ideas would be to have a dedicated channel of communication where developer-specific questions can be asked, letting users know of what parts of the development community have openings
Jul 16 13:25:09 <klieber>	Brandy: one request/suggestion would be to leverage the GWN for as much of that as possible.  That was/is its primary reason for being created in the first place.
Jul 16 13:25:26 <klieber>	that likely won't be an answer for everything, but it could be of some help
Jul 16 13:25:38 *	klieber admits to being biased in this case :)
Jul 16 13:26:12 <seemant>	klieber, g2boojum: the reason I'd approached Brandy in the first place was due to her extensive contact/communication with members of the user community
Jul 16 13:26:17 <seemant>	both on the forms and in the irc channels
Jul 16 13:26:31 <g2boojum>	Also, I assume that when we restructure the web site to reflect the various projects that should help people at least have a better idea where to look or who to ask.
Jul 16 13:26:34 <seemant>	and within 5 minutes of she and I talking about devrel, she had outlined at least 3 different issues
Jul 16 13:27:01 <seemant>	garnered from just the conversations she'd had with users during her time in the forums/channels so far
Jul 16 13:27:15 <klieber>	seemant: what are the issues?  maybe that would given grant and I some more context to help understand this role better?
Jul 16 13:27:22 <klieber>	s/given/give/
Jul 16 13:27:31 <seemant>	one of the perceptions is that as developers we're in some far away castle locked away playing with secret potions
Jul 16 13:27:38 <seemant>	and completely unapproachable
Jul 16 13:27:53 <seemant>	^^ that was an issue, thought I've phrased it differently
Jul 16 13:28:10 <seemant>	another issue was the scattering of different data (which led to the Handbook idea)
Jul 16 13:28:41 <Brandy>	At the moment there are a lot of users who are really quite unaware of how to become a developer, what the specific roles of a developer are etc. DevRel should provide a point of contact for these users.
Jul 16 13:28:42 <--	lu_zero has quit (Read error: 110 (Connection timed out))
Jul 16 13:29:00 <klieber>	ok -- that helps.
Jul 16 13:29:16 <g2boojum>	I could also add "developers are rude to users" and "Changes in Gentoo are chaotic" to seemant's list, as a guess.
Jul 16 13:29:46 <klieber>	I guess I'm concerned with being too open and available with our users -- I don't want to set the expectation that, any time a user can't figure out how to su to root that we can/will provide support to them.
Jul 16 13:29:58 <seemant>	klieber: no, that's not the aim at all
Jul 16 13:30:14 <seemant>	our focus in devrel is more to the advanced users and prospective developers
Jul 16 13:30:15 <klieber>	ok, then I'm missing something, obviously :)
Jul 16 13:30:15 -->	lu_zero (~lu_zero@ppp-6-196.25-151.libero.it) has joined #gentoo-devrel
Jul 16 13:30:25 <Brandy>	I'm also aware of some people who don't have the desire/time to ever think about taking on the responsibilities of a developer. I'd like to look at ways in which they can still be used (testers, documentation etc)
Jul 16 13:32:03 <seemant>	klieber: and note that brandy's office's role is to filter a lot of the cruft out before presenting to the developer community
Jul 16 13:32:26 <seemant>	klieber: think of an Embassy
Jul 16 13:32:34 <klieber>	ok -- I think I get it
Jul 16 13:33:03 <g2boojum>	klieber: I think we may be mingling "devrel" and "userrel" issues.  
Jul 16 13:33:03 <seemant>	she'll stamp people's passports, replace missing visitor visas etc
Jul 16 13:33:11 <klieber>	g2boojum: yep -- sounds like it.
Jul 16 13:33:17 <g2boojum>	Hmmm, we don't have a "userrel" project.
Jul 16 13:33:46 <klieber>	maybe we should rename this project to community relations or something more generic.
Jul 16 13:33:52 *	klieber likes the sound of commrel
Jul 16 13:34:46 <g2boojum>	Oh, "User Relations" is a subproject.  I don't remember that.  Oops!
Jul 16 13:35:25 <seemant>	well we quite possibly can expand the user rel subproject to attempt to deal with some the things grant and kurt brought up
Jul 16 13:35:45 <Brandy>	indeed
Jul 16 13:36:30 <seemant>	kurt, grant, we'll think upon that more during the week and tweak the project description
Jul 16 13:36:46 <g2boojum>	Fair enough.
Jul 16 13:36:53 <klieber>	cool -- I like the idea in principle and I think Brandy will do a great job.
Jul 16 13:37:31 <g2boojum>	Works for me.
Jul 16 13:37:46 *	g2boojum watched too much Hunter in his youth.
Jul 16 13:37:54 <seemant>	lol
Jul 16 13:38:13 <seemant>	ok, so in the next week or 10 days then
Jul 16 13:38:26 <seemant>	we'll have subproject pages up for ombudsman  from grant
Jul 16 13:38:32 <seemant>	The Embassy from Brandy
Jul 16 13:38:43 <seemant>	and avenj and I will start outlining the Developers Handbook
Jul 16 13:38:58 <seemant>	avenj: fair with you? I'm speaking for you coz you're sleepy, and I can advantage :P
Jul 16 13:39:49 ---	seemant gives channel operator status to lu_zero
Jul 16 13:40:02 <seemant>	so, before we adjourn, any outstanding issues or questions?
Jul 16 13:40:04 <seemant>	luca, fred?
Jul 16 13:40:40 <fava>	ambassador@gentoo.org perhaps
Jul 16 13:41:02 <klieber>	that sounds a bit presumptuous, doesn't it?
Jul 16 13:41:02 <seemant>	seens fair enough to me
Jul 16 13:41:22 <seemant>	presumptuous?
Jul 16 13:41:50 <fava>	klieber: Only if it conferrs diplomatic immumity.
Jul 16 13:42:00 <klieber>	nm -- if you guys like it then that's good enough for me.
Jul 16 13:42:01 <lu_zero>	seemant I have to read the backlog....
Jul 16 13:42:18 <seemant>	klieber: no no, tell about your reservation
Jul 16 13:42:19 <g2boojum>	I'm thinking the word klieber had in mind was "condescending", since it propagates the notion that one _needs_ an ambassador to the High-Falutin devs.
Jul 16 13:42:34 <seemant>	grant: indeed, that makes sense
Jul 16 13:42:37 <klieber>	grant pretty much said it
Jul 16 13:43:00 <seemant>	except she's more of their ambassador to us
Jul 16 13:43:27 <klieber>	I guess I have negative connotations regarding the word "ambassador" that color my opinion of it
Jul 16 13:43:38 <fava>	an ambassador is a friendly contact in a hostile or stange area.
Jul 16 13:43:44 <klieber>	which is why I backed off earlier. :)
Jul 16 13:43:54 <klieber>	if you guys are fine with it, then I'm fine with it.
Jul 16 13:43:59 <seemant>	klieber: that mail alias can come later anyway
Jul 16 13:44:04 <g2boojum>	seemant: True, but the context might not be obvious.  How about we leave it up in the air for more thought.
Jul 16 13:44:06 <seemant>	it's not needed immediately, regardless
Jul 16 13:44:23 <seemant>	grant: agree
Jul 16 13:44:33 <Brandy>	I too think ambassador is a bit rich. My role should ideally be transparent, so the high-end users can communicate effectively with the development community.
Jul 16 13:45:23 <lu_zero>	hmm
Jul 16 13:45:32 <lu_zero>	a nice term may be shaman
Jul 16 13:45:36 <lu_zero>	or medium
Jul 16 13:46:15 <lu_zero>	just to make it look less serious
Jul 16 13:46:20 *	g2boojum has images of Brandy "channelling" seemant.
Jul 16 13:46:23 <seemant>	well, it's something we can decide a little later, anyhow
Jul 16 13:46:25 <g2boojum>	Anything else?
Jul 16 13:46:46 <seemant>	oh yeah
Jul 16 13:46:47 <seemant>	just quickly
Jul 16 13:46:55 <seemant>	everyone ok with Tal's Developer Profiles idea?
Jul 16 13:47:11 <Brandy>	I like the idea.
Jul 16 13:47:11 <klieber>	uh...
Jul 16 13:47:16 <klieber>	what developer profiles idea?
Jul 16 13:47:24 *	klieber obviously did not do his homework
Jul 16 13:47:49 <seemant>	klieber: he sent out a dtd for a small developer profile
Jul 16 13:48:09 <seemant>	including photo, email, name, herds memberships, which ebuilds are directly maintained
Jul 16 13:48:13 <seemant>	iirc
Jul 16 13:48:18 <klieber>	ok -- that makes sense.
Jul 16 13:48:27 <klieber>	sure -- that sounds like a good idea.
Jul 16 13:48:30 <g2boojum>	klieber: Storing dev info as xml files.  Name, username, location, gpg key, herds, projects, hardware available, ...
Jul 16 13:48:39 <seemant>	oh right gpg and h/w too
Jul 16 13:48:42 <g2boojum>	Ideally the dev roster should be generated from the profiles.
Jul 16 13:48:46 <seemant>	the h/w idea of his was cunning
Jul 16 13:48:48 <Brandy>	I don't think devs should be compelled to have all details listed though if they like a little bit of anonymity.
Jul 16 13:48:56 <g2boojum>	seemant: Mine, actually.
Jul 16 13:49:01 <klieber>	h/w?
Jul 16 13:49:05 <seemant>	the h/w idea of grant's was cunning
Jul 16 13:49:08 <seemant>	hardware
Jul 16 13:49:14 <g2boojum>	I keep seeing people say on -dev "Hey, who has ppc to test ..."
Jul 16 13:49:18 <klieber>	oh right
Jul 16 13:49:55 <klieber>	Brandy: likely we can mandate certain fields (name, nick, gpg key, herds, projects, etc.) and leave others as optional
Jul 16 13:50:05 <seemant>	Brandy: yes -- things like username, gpg key, herds, projects and hardware should be to provide as compulsory
Jul 16 13:50:23 <Brandy>	that sounds fair. :)
Jul 16 13:50:24 <g2boojum>	Brandy: Good point.  I'm certainly not going to add my astrological sign!
Jul 16 13:50:30 <seemant>	the realname/location/turn-ons/turn-offs fields can be lef tto developer discretion
Jul 16 13:50:59 <fava>	If you require devs to create/update there own and place it in dev.g.o :~ a script can automatically collect the info ang generate the dev list from it
Jul 16 13:51:02 <g2boojum>	I haven't looked at the dtd, just the example xml.  That might need to be fixed.
Jul 16 13:51:13 <klieber>	fava: yep -- I was just thinking how we'd do that. :)
Jul 16 13:51:22 <klieber>	fava: likely we'll store it in ldap, actually
Jul 16 13:51:54 <seemant>	so can someone take a quick log of the meeting please?
Jul 16 13:52:16 <g2boojum>	klieber: You know, if we use ldap then we don't need really need a dtd or the xml, we can just have users log in and add the changes.
Jul 16 13:52:23 -->	lu_zero_ (~lu_zero@ppp-226-182.25-151.libero.it) has joined #gentoo-devrel
Jul 16 13:52:41 <klieber>	g2boojum: yep
Jul 16 13:52:49 <g2boojum>	Wow, use LDAP to store directory info.  What a _good_ idea.  *Smacks forehead again*
Jul 16 13:52:58 <seemant>	lol
Jul 16 13:53:02 <klieber>	g2boojum: we'll be moving towards ldap in a big way for infrastructure stuff
Jul 16 13:53:11 <--	lu_zero has quit (Killed (NickServ (ghosted: lu_zero_!~lu_zero@ppp-226-182.25-151.libero.it)))
Jul 16 13:53:44 <g2boojum>	klieber: That was the impression I had.
Jul 16 13:53:49 <g2boojum>	Cool.
Jul 16 13:54:20 <--	lu_zero_ (~lu_zero@ppp-226-182.25-151.libero.it) has left #gentoo-devrel
Jul 16 13:55:00 -->	lu_zero (~lu_zero@ppp-226-182.25-151.libero.it) has joined #gentoo-devrel
Jul 16 13:55:04 <lu_zero>	back
Jul 16 13:55:06 <g2boojum>	Okay, I'm still at work and I have a strong desire to head on home.  'Caio, all.
Jul 16 13:55:27 <Brandy>	Ciao g2boojum
Jul 16 13:55:42 <g2boojum>	Brandy: Oh, and nice meeting you, ma'am.
Jul 16 13:55:44 <lu_zero>	bye g2boojum 
Jul 16 13:55:53 *	g2boojum is gone: Headed back to the barn.
Jul 16 13:56:01 <Brandy>	g2boojum: the pleasure's all mine :)
Jul 16 13:56:42 <klieber>	ok, if we're done, then I'm headed off to bed.  4am comes early
Jul 16 13:57:05 <lu_zero>	klieber really ^^
Jul 16 13:57:15 <seemant>	yep adjourned
Jul 16 13:57:20 <seemant>	someone logged this?
Jul 16 13:57:24 <klieber>	cooldealneal
Jul 16 13:57:26 <klieber>	yep -- I've got logs
Jul 16 13:57:31 <seemant>	thanks kurt
Jul 16 13:57:35 <seemant>	thank you all
Jul 16 13:57:40 <Brandy>	bye
Jul 16 13:57:43 <klieber>	night/morning all
