Jul 23 19:06:10 <seemant>	ok, let's get started
Jul 23 19:06:16 <seemant>	hi grant, just in time
Jul 23 19:06:37 <seemant>	I'd like to just kick off with having spyderous introduce his ideas to us about user relations
Jul 23 19:06:41 <seemant>	spyderous: here?
Jul 23 19:07:26 <seemant>	just to quickly pre-cap: intro spyderous, intro stuart and his proposal (related to glep # 3 btw)
Jul 23 19:07:53 <seemant>	then we'd like to move Conflict Res. to an active subproject
Jul 23 19:07:58 <seemant>	so we'll address that
Jul 23 19:08:10 <seemant>	and an update from Brandy about User Rel side of things
Jul 23 19:08:24 <seemant>	finally, GWN announcement for DevRel in order?
Jul 23 19:08:54 <seemant>	(I'm lagging big time)
Jul 23 19:09:28 <seemant>	erm, ok, let's skip ahead to Stuart
Jul 23 19:09:30 <spyderous>	here
Jul 23 19:09:36 <seemant>	haha
Jul 23 19:09:39 <seemant>	spyderous: ok, you're up
Jul 23 19:09:40 <spyderous>	skip
Jul 23 19:09:59 <spyderous>	i'll go after stuart
Jul 23 19:10:05 <seemant>	Stuart: then you
Jul 23 19:10:14 <Stuart>	k
Jul 23 19:10:21 <Stuart>	seemant: 
Jul 23 19:10:25 <Stuart>	bah
Jul 23 19:10:46 <Stuart>	I've put together a proposal for how I personally see my role as a Gentoo Developer
Jul 23 19:11:04 <Stuart>	seemant's already circulated the URL, so I won't repeat it here
Jul 23 19:11:37 <avenj>	a non-pdf version of that would be sexy, btw - dunno if anyone's done that yet
Jul 23 19:11:47 <avenj>	actually, a guidexml version on devrel would probably be best
Jul 23 19:12:08 <Stuart>	guidexml takes too long to write
Jul 23 19:12:34 <Stuart>	and is a pain to edit ;-)
Jul 23 19:12:44 <avenj>	i can guidexmlify it at some point, just not exactly soon
Jul 23 19:12:58 <Stuart>	I'll look into writing a guidexml export filter for OO 1.1, now that I have that installed and working - that ok as a compromise?
Jul 23 19:13:21 <avenj>	whatever works
Jul 23 19:13:34 <Stuart>	grin - PDF works for most of the world ;-)
Jul 23 19:13:41 <seemant>	from the people who've read it -- I know spyderous has commented
Jul 23 19:13:54 <seemant>	Brandy: your comments from User Rel point of view?
Jul 23 19:14:23 <Brandy>	The users would *love* the ability to have their ebuilds sponsored
Jul 23 19:14:53 <Brandy>	One thing to keep in mind is what we do if/when Gentoo decides to maintain the package itself
Jul 23 19:15:08 <Brandy>	i.e. where does the user stand?
Jul 23 19:15:21 <Stuart>	mmm
Jul 23 19:15:40 <Stuart>	I don't see sponsorship as Gentoo giving up responsibility for the ebuild
Jul 23 19:16:12 <Stuart>	a sizable proportion of sponsored ebuilds will still need editing by devs before they're fit to commit
Jul 23 19:16:52 <seemant>	Stuart: I wonder if you have seen liquidx's ebuild writing/submitting doc?
Jul 23 19:16:52 <spyderous>	qa testing, if nothing else </interrupt>
Jul 23 19:17:06 <Stuart>	seement: the one on www.gentoo.org?
Jul 23 19:17:22 <seemant>	http://peregrine.gentoo.org/~liquidx/ebuildmistakes.html
Jul 23 19:17:51 <Stuart>	seement: looking now
Jul 23 19:18:18 <seemant>	that's more implementation detail oriented
Jul 23 19:18:31 <Stuart>	seemant: agreed
Jul 23 19:18:54 <seemant>	but it has some good info to minimise the dev-editing part of a submitted ebuild
Jul 23 19:19:30 <Stuart>	I think it's important that the Gentoo Developers who sponsor users' ebuilds are still ultimately the ones responsible for the ebuilds
Jul 23 19:20:11 <seemant>	the thing I would like to get a feel for is whether you all think we can use/adapt/adopt Stuart's guidelines into devrel's handbook project and/or propose to expand the developer policy
Jul 23 19:20:21 <seemant>	Stuart: 100% agreed
Jul 23 19:20:48 <spyderous>	i feel like much of it could serve as guidelines rather than policy
Jul 23 19:20:56 <avenj>	i agree with spyderous wrt guidelines rather than policy
Jul 23 19:21:25 <seemant>	Brandy: g2boojum: klieber: ?
Jul 23 19:21:44 <klieber>	I don't do enough ebuild development stuff to really offer a good opinion
Jul 23 19:22:03 *	klieber has committed....~6 ebuilds in his entire career :)
Jul 23 19:22:04 <Brandy>	I think guidelines too since the proposal outlines the dev him/herself having the final say on sponsoring any ebuild
Jul 23 19:22:11 <avenj>	klieber's lying - he's told me he secretly has a desire to maintain kde and openoffice
Jul 23 19:22:18 <Stuart>	any particular reason why guidelines rather than policy?
Jul 23 19:22:22 <seemant>	klieber: well, Stuart's doc is more of a way to define the relationship between an ebuild, a gentoo developer, and a user-dev
Jul 23 19:22:36 <avenj>	Stuart: because it should be up to each developer how they want to handle new ebuilds
Jul 23 19:22:46 <g2boojum>	I'd say it's a good set of guidelines.  I think more devs need to "buy-in" before it could be policy.
Jul 23 19:22:53 <avenj>	Stuart: and potentially on a per-ebuild case-by-case basis, too
Jul 23 19:23:32 <klieber>	Stuart: one area that I don't think should be policy is the "requirement" that notifications be sent out for updates and security fixes.
Jul 23 19:23:34 <Stuart>	avenj: that's fair enough, but if Gentoo wants to tackle QA, at some point something like this'll have to become policy
Jul 23 19:23:58 <avenj>	Stuart: why? what if i want to suck up a user-submitted ebuild and do everything with it myself without user involvement on that ebuild?
Jul 23 19:24:07 <Stuart>	just to be clear - I never intended this to become policy
Jul 23 19:24:42 <avenj>	(that is, past the original ebuild)
Jul 23 19:24:54 <Stuart>	avenj: that's not what my doc is about
Jul 23 19:25:10 <spyderous>	that's what _part_ of it is about. 
Jul 23 19:25:13 <Stuart>	avenj: with the doc, I'm trying to standardise the way *I* work on ebuilds
Jul 23 19:25:18 <avenj>	Stuart: right - hence guidelines
Jul 23 19:25:19 <avenj>	rather than policy
Jul 23 19:25:27 <spyderous>	the relationship between user and developer could be guidelines ; the qa (in some form) could be policy
Jul 23 19:26:16 <seemant>	ya I mean I think the acceptance tests and the incidence tests would make for good qa policy
Jul 23 19:26:47 <Stuart>	argh - I can't type fast enough ;-)
Jul 23 19:27:18 <spyderous>	well, it is 6 against 1.
Jul 23 19:27:28 <Stuart>	grin - 6 against 0 you mean ;-)
Jul 23 19:28:39 <Stuart>	I'm not here to argue the case for making anything in the doc into official policy
Jul 23 19:28:39 <seemant>	I don't think it's that
Jul 23 19:28:39 <seemant>	I think people generally like your doc
Jul 23 19:29:03 <seemant>	avenj: we'll talk later more on the handbook, yeah?
Jul 23 19:29:06 <avenj>	seemant: yeah
Jul 23 19:29:19 <avenj>	those docs i promised may be delayed some - releng is sucking up time
Jul 23 19:29:23 <seemant>	so, moving along then -- spyderous, who are you and what are your ideas about user rel?
Jul 23 19:29:30 <seemant>	avenj: understandably -- it's not a problem :)
Jul 23 19:29:53 <spyderous>	Hi everyone. My name's Donnie.
Jul 23 19:30:22 *	g2boojum waits for the chorus of "Hi, Donnie".
Jul 23 19:30:36 <spyderous>	AA or devrel..hmm.
Jul 23 19:30:54 <spyderous>	i've noticed we have devrel things in place to deal with developer-to-advanced-user relations
Jul 23 19:31:06 <spyderous>	but not with what IMO is the majority of our user base
Jul 23 19:31:33 <spyderous>	we need to have more outreach efforts to the beginning-to-mid-level users
Jul 23 19:31:45 <spyderous>	making developers more accessible is one step
Jul 23 19:32:40 <spyderous>	this is a bad metaphor, but now we're more like distant gods than parents
Jul 23 19:33:10 <spyderous>	don't get me wrong, some of us are very approachable and willing to spend time working with users
Jul 23 19:33:18 <spyderous>	but that should be the goal for all of us
Jul 23 19:33:50 <avenj>	just to play devil's advocate for a minute - what's the tangible benefit of spending time working with not-very-advanced users?
Jul 23 19:33:50 <klieber>	spyderous: understanding that I got my start with gentoo by helping users, why should it be the goal for all of us?
Jul 23 19:33:51 <spyderous>	i believe brandy's working on a faq for linux beginners
Jul 23 19:33:56 <avenj>	right, what klieber said
Jul 23 19:34:08 <spyderous>	the goal is that gentoo is a community
Jul 23 19:34:16 <spyderous>	and it should act like one
Jul 23 19:34:30 <avenj>	but what if a developer doesn't have time to spend working with users because they're developing?
Jul 23 19:34:31 <klieber>	spyderous: not sure I follow your logic.
Jul 23 19:34:40 <avenj>	the community isn't going to go anywhere because i don't help Joe User
Jul 23 19:34:52 <avenj>	there's still 25,000 registered users on the forums, ~600 people at any one time in #gentoo, tec
Jul 23 19:34:52 <avenj>	er
Jul 23 19:34:53 <avenj>	etc
Jul 23 19:34:59 <avenj>	all of whom help each other out
Jul 23 19:35:08 <klieber>	I'm not saying we should all live in a white tower, but by the same token, we have some very anti-social developers who still provide an incredibly positive net contribution to gentoo
Jul 23 19:35:16 <avenj>	right
Jul 23 19:35:23 <Stuart>	agreed
Jul 23 19:35:29 <spyderous>	purposely avoiding users is not what we want to do
Jul 23 19:35:30 <avenj>	i think that developers interacting heavily with users should be an optional thing, something to do if you enjoy it
Jul 23 19:35:35 <spyderous>	maybe they don't actively go out and help users all the time
Jul 23 19:35:36 <klieber>	spyderous: again, why?
Jul 23 19:35:40 <spyderous>	but they should at least be approachable
Jul 23 19:35:51 <Brandy>	We can always let User-Relations act as the conduit for users of all levels, thus insulating devs from the inane newbie questions
Jul 23 19:36:16 <klieber>	I agree that this is a community and all communities have different types of folks.
Jul 23 19:36:26 <klieber>	some folks are very quiet introverts, some are extroverts.
Jul 23 19:36:45 <avenj>	i guess you need to define 'approachable'
Jul 23 19:36:56 <klieber>	yes, that would help
Jul 23 19:37:03 <spyderous>	approachable meaning there's an obvious way to contact them
Jul 23 19:37:07 <g2boojum>	spyderous: Not to be too stupid about this, but define "approachable".  Azarah, for instance, generally reponds to his bug reports and sometimes his e-mails, but he's perennially swamped.  I don't know that I really want him to be _more_ approachable.
Jul 23 19:37:09 <spyderous>	and it's posted publicly and easy to find
Jul 23 19:37:13 <spyderous>	associated with their expertise
Jul 23 19:37:22 <avenj>	sounds like the devlist to me
Jul 23 19:37:28 <klieber>	spyderous: I like Brandy's idea, personally
Jul 23 19:38:00 <spyderous>	i suppose scaling up the size of user relations is always a possibility
Jul 23 19:38:15 <spyderous>	brandy by herself would probably having a little trouble dealing with every question that would go to every developer
Jul 23 19:38:25 <klieber>	indeed
Jul 23 19:38:42 <avenj>	i guess i don't really know what the purpose of approachable devs is
Jul 23 19:38:45 <avenj>	that is, what you feel the purpose is
Jul 23 19:38:47 <klieber>	but by the same token, danarmak would be buried if he had to respond to all KDE-related queries.
Jul 23 19:38:57 <avenj>	we have bugzilla for bug reports, for example
Jul 23 19:39:01 <avenj>	and feature requests
Jul 23 19:39:13 <spyderous>	if joe user has a question bob user can't answer, i think he should be able to contact "the gentoo expert" on it
Jul 23 19:39:14 <avenj>	we have gentoo-dev@gentoo.org for discussion about ebuild development
Jul 23 19:39:19 <avenj>	spyderous: why?
Jul 23 19:39:23 <avenj>	that is, why do we need to be tech support?
Jul 23 19:39:47 <avenj>	frankly, i'll do tech support for people in #gentoo or on the forums when i'm up for it, but i don't feel _obligated_ to do it and i don't think i _should_ feel obligated to do it
Jul 23 19:40:36 <spyderous>	there's a difference between obligation and encouragement
Jul 23 19:40:41 <spyderous>	just like between guidelines and policy
Jul 23 19:41:04 <klieber>	spyderous: personally, I want to encourage all gentoo developers to do a) what they're good at and b) what makes them happy.
Jul 23 19:41:12 <spyderous>	i'd imagine some of us would be more than willing to answer questions we got, if we actually got them
Jul 23 19:41:16 <Stuart>	I think one thing that's important is that the devs don't lose touch with our userbase
Jul 23 19:41:22 <spyderous>	but since people can't figure out who to ask or how to ask them, they don't get asked
Jul 23 19:41:35 <spyderous>	Stuart's summed up the whole thing.
Jul 23 19:41:44 <avenj>	Stuart: yeah, but my question is: how far does that extend?
Jul 23 19:41:44 <klieber>	ok, but isn't that our job?
Jul 23 19:41:59 <Stuart>	if the gentoo devs become mainly an inward-looking group, it'll eventually disappear up its own back passage
Jul 23 19:41:59 <avenj>	Stuart: i mean, not losing touch with the userbase is obviously very important
Jul 23 19:42:05 <avenj>	but does that extend to being everyone's personal tech support?
Jul 23 19:42:13 <Stuart>	avenj: no it doesn't
Jul 23 19:42:15 <avenj>	okay
Jul 23 19:42:31 <spyderous>	it wouldn't be difficult to set up a tree of "gentoo help", since there's an informal one already
Jul 23 19:42:34 <spyderous>	with devs at the top
Jul 23 19:42:42 <Stuart>	but how many of our devs have any idea about how the packages they write ebuilds for are actually used out there?
Jul 23 19:43:12 <seemant>	well look, there are attitudes among devs that do need to be addressed
Jul 23 19:43:26 <seemant>	bug 24933 sticks out
Jul 23 19:43:30 <Stuart>	and how many of them care? ;-) a lot I think
Jul 23 19:43:39 <seemant>	that's devs being *completely* out of touch with users
Jul 23 19:43:41 <avenj>	definitely
Jul 23 19:44:10 <g2boojum>	Stuart: That's true.  At the same time, though, it is literally impossible to keep up w/ #gentoo, #gentoo-dev, the forums, and the -user, -dev, and -core mailing lists.
Jul 23 19:44:38 <spyderous>	keep up with what you can.
Jul 23 19:44:43 <spyderous>	it's that easy. =)
Jul 23 19:44:54 <klieber>	spyderous: I think people already do that.
Jul 23 19:45:21 <Stuart>	I agree it's impossible to keep up.  I don't read the forums myself, for example - I just don't have the time
Jul 23 19:45:31 <avenj>	some devs just need a serious attitude adjustment - i guess i don't see how that necessarily fits with this
Jul 23 19:45:42 <avenj>	but i don't have a clear picture of what "this" is either, so i could be totally off
Jul 23 19:45:48 <spyderous>	you don't see how better attitudes fit in with getting along with users?
Jul 23 19:46:08 <Stuart>	lol
Jul 23 19:46:12 <klieber>	getting along != being more approachable, imo
Jul 23 19:46:20 <avenj>	klieber: right
Jul 23 19:46:33 <klieber>	we're talking about a number of different issues here, it seems.
Jul 23 19:46:34 <spyderous>	but to be approachable, you need to get along
Jul 23 19:47:15 <klieber>	spyderous: I doubt that anyone here disagrees that we need to get along with our user base and be respectful of them in our interactions with them.
Jul 23 19:47:20 -->	tberman (~tberman@dsl-207-112-41-32.tor.primus.ca) has joined #gentoo-devrel
Jul 23 19:47:22 <spyderous>	so 1) improved attitudes, 2) improved approachability, especially about development issues 3) simply ask devs who can to help out more 4) inform users what resources are available
Jul 23 19:47:39 <klieber>	spyderous: can you please define #2 better?
Jul 23 19:47:39 <Stuart>	I'd go with 1) and 4)
Jul 23 19:47:53 <spyderous>	klieber: it's already in progress, with herds, metadata, etc.   
Jul 23 19:48:08 <tberman>	spyderous: improved attitudes means what exactly (srry, im so late, slow subway)
Jul 23 19:48:17 <spyderous>	if i have a question about <random package> and why its ebuild does this or that, i don't know who to ask
Jul 23 19:48:17 <klieber>	spyderous: if the net result of #2 is expecting all devs to perform direct end-user support, then I think we should discuss that further.
Jul 23 19:48:22 <avenj>	tberman: that some devs have a nasty attitude for the sake of having a nasty attitude
Jul 23 19:48:32 <tberman>	avenj: who?
Jul 23 19:48:33 <avenj>	tberman: and despite slaps on the wrist, don't get the idea
Jul 23 19:48:35 <klieber>	spyderous: you post a question on the forums, -user or -dev.
Jul 23 19:48:38 <tberman>	avenj: i havnt noticed that really
Jul 23 19:48:45 <avenj>	tberman: i sure have
Jul 23 19:48:47 <tberman>	well, with one dev i have, but other than that
Jul 23 19:49:34 <tberman>	spyderous: i would say #1 and #2 as the same
Jul 23 19:49:51 <klieber>	tberman: we were just saying they're different. :)
Jul 23 19:49:51 <g2boojum>	I'm happy w/ 1 and 4.  I think 3 already happens.  I think having particular devs handling 2 would probably be better than trying to get everybody to do so.  We could certainly use a few devs whose duties are really just to keep up w/ user issues.
Jul 23 19:50:12 *	g2boojum points to Brandy 
Jul 23 19:50:18 <Brandy>	hehe
Jul 23 19:50:29 <tberman>	haha, they dont seem to be to me, but i missed the previous stuff, so ill admit my own ignorance
Jul 23 19:50:46 <klieber>	honestly, I thought one of the primary goals of this project was to provide a better end user experience *without* bogging the dev team down with end user support
Jul 23 19:51:54 <Stuart>	klieber: to provide a better end-user experience, we need to know what's wrong with the current experience ;-)
Jul 23 19:52:09 <klieber>	Stuart: agreed -- I thought that's what we were here to do.
Jul 23 19:52:17 <klieber>	collect data and report a distilled version back to the dev team
Jul 23 19:52:18 <Stuart>	k
Jul 23 19:52:33 <klieber>	rather than try to strong-arm folks into doing something that they a) might not want to or b) might be ill-equipped to.
Jul 23 19:52:45 <Stuart>	agreed on both counts
Jul 23 19:52:51 <spyderous>	i'd be interested to hear your opinions on seemant's idea about opening #gentoo-dev.
Jul 23 19:52:57 <spyderous>	(occasionally)
Jul 23 19:53:16 <spyderous>	it seems to me that mirrors what i'm saying
Jul 23 19:53:23 <klieber>	Personally, I think it's a great idea on occasion. 
Jul 23 19:53:29 <klieber>	because we don't force anyone to participate in that
Jul 23 19:53:39 <Brandy>	seems to work really well on the weekends
Jul 23 19:53:40 *	g2boojum agrees w/ klieber 
Jul 23 19:53:52 <Stuart>	why isn't it open atm?
Jul 23 19:53:54 <avenj>	a regular scheduled 'open #-dev' day would be good
Jul 23 19:53:59 <avenj>	Stuart: looked at #gentoo lately?
Jul 23 19:54:02 *	klieber points to #gentoo as the reason why -dev is locked
Jul 23 19:54:03 <avenj>	right
Jul 23 19:54:08 <Stuart>	lol
Jul 23 19:54:25 <klieber>	but I think opening it weekly is fine.
Jul 23 19:54:27 <Stuart>	so, how is opening #gentoo-dev gonna prevent the same thing from happening?
Jul 23 19:54:29 <klieber>	gives users a chance to interact, etc.
Jul 23 19:54:41 <klieber>	Stuart: because it's an occasional thing (as I understand it)
Jul 23 19:54:44 <g2boojum>	Stuart: It's only for a limited period of time.
Jul 23 19:54:53 <Stuart>	fair enough
Jul 23 19:55:08 <tberman>	um, how is that different
Jul 23 19:55:11 <tberman>	i +v anyone who asks
Jul 23 19:55:22 <tberman>	and i +v people i see in #gentoo helping who seem to have ideas
Jul 23 19:55:40 <tberman>	its basically open now, just a bit a chat-sanity prevention
Jul 23 19:55:49 <avenj>	i'm more selective about voice
Jul 23 19:55:58 <spyderous>	a lot of people request a reason for it
Jul 23 19:56:01 <avenj>	too many people have showed up, asked for voice, and had something that belongs in #gentoo
Jul 23 19:56:01 <avenj>	right
Jul 23 19:56:07 <tberman>	and to prevent it from being basically 'oh, ebuild y is broken, im going into -dev and asking why why why
Jul 23 19:56:25 <avenj>	typically people try to use it as their own personal bugzilla or tech support channel
Jul 23 19:56:37 <tberman>	exactly, +m prevents that
Jul 23 19:56:48 <spyderous>	otoh, if it's a development-related question from a user, doesn't it belong in -dev?
Jul 23 19:57:03 <klieber>	spyderous: isn't that why we can all selectively +v users?
Jul 23 19:57:26 <avenj>	spyderous: more often it's "kde is segfaulting, can someone help me?" or along those lines
Jul 23 19:57:52 <g2boojum>	spyderous: We also do have a completely open gentoo-dev mailing list.
Jul 23 19:57:54 <Stuart>	y'know, when businesses want to know what the customer experience is, they have two main tools at their disposal
Jul 23 19:57:55 <spyderous>	i would like to discover a way to emphasize that -dev is for development issues
Jul 23 19:57:59 <spyderous>	just like the mailing list, g2boojum
Jul 23 19:58:06 <tberman>	see, however, devs use it for the same thing, so its somewhat a bit hypocritical to say no users can use it for tech support, but devs can
Jul 23 19:58:07 <spyderous>	rarely do -user questions come on -dev
Jul 23 19:58:09 <spyderous>	people figure it out
Jul 23 19:58:10 <tberman>	i admit i do it as well
Jul 23 19:58:14 <Stuart>	one is market research - polls, invited forums etc
Jul 23 19:58:19 <Stuart>	the other is usability testing
Jul 23 19:58:43 <Stuart>	gentoo, as far as I can tell, doesn't really do either
Jul 23 19:58:55 <Stuart>	just a comment
Jul 23 19:58:57 <avenj>	what's involved with 'usability testing'?
Jul 23 19:59:06 *	avenj uses gentoo all the time - does that count? :)
Jul 23 19:59:17 *	tberman listens to stuart, he is s-m-a-r-t ;)
Jul 23 19:59:32 <Stuart>	real users are asked to try new products out.  Their feedback is recorded, as well as their actions and demeanour
Jul 23 19:59:40 *	Stuart is not smart, just old
Jul 23 19:59:43 <g2boojum>	tberman: Yes, but I can either ignore you, or answer you, and it's unlikely to stop me from seeing what other devs are saying.  If 500+ people are doing that, though....
Jul 23 20:00:02 <Stuart>	we push new ebuilds out all the time
Jul 23 20:00:08 <spyderous>	if we got a tighter reign on off-topic stuff in #gentoo-dev, it wouldn't be an issue.
Jul 23 20:00:16 <avenj>	Stuart: isn't that what bugzilla is for?
Jul 23 20:00:17 <tberman>	g2boojum: oh, i doubt i would stop, but im just pointing out
Jul 23 20:00:23 <avenj>	Stuart: and why some of us monitor the forums and #gentoo for comments?
Jul 23 20:00:31 <Stuart>	avenj: not really
Jul 23 20:00:50 <Stuart>	avenj: how many people can be bothered to post in bugzilla when they have a problem?
Jul 23 20:01:11 <avenj>	if they don't take the time to report a bug, they can't expect it to get fixed
Jul 23 20:01:17 <avenj>	that seems fair enough to me
Jul 23 20:01:20 <Stuart>	and the very name bugzilla implies 'bugs, faults' - there'll be people out there who think it's not for new ideas
Jul 23 20:01:26 <spyderous>	how many give up because bugzilla is too complicated.
Jul 23 20:01:26 <avenj>	judging by the sheer volume of new bugs, quite a few people can be bothered to post when they have a problem
Jul 23 20:01:42 <avenj>	note that i also mentioned #gentoo and the forums
Jul 23 20:01:46 <avenj>	which many devs read
Jul 23 20:02:07 <Stuart>	I did note that
Jul 23 20:02:08 <avenj>	i don't see how we could record user reactions to things other than monitoring #gentoo and the forums, which happens already
Jul 23 20:02:29 <klieber>	guys -- we're talking about a lot of things here.  so many, in fact, that I lost track of what it is that we're trying to accomplish.  Can someone help me by telling me what it is we're trying to do/decide?
Jul 23 20:02:33 <Stuart>	well, in the real world, they run usability labs, where people are filmed
Jul 23 20:02:45 <avenj>	Stuart: buy us a lab :)
Jul 23 20:03:00 <avenj>	#gentoo and the forums are effectively a usability lab, in that case
Jul 23 20:03:17 <avenj>	but klieber's right, we're all over the place: what's the goal?
Jul 23 20:03:38 <Brandy>	klieber: Often devs and newbie's seem to have mutually exclusive roles in Gentoo; they can seem worlds apart, but we also want to create the 'appearance' that their concerns will be dealt with by the dev community.
Jul 23 20:03:59 <klieber>	Brandy: sure -- I thought that's what the purpose of this project was.
Jul 23 20:04:09 <klieber>	I thought it was supposed to be a conduit
Jul 23 20:04:14 <klieber>	and a filter
Jul 23 20:04:22 <Brandy>	klieber: exactly.
Jul 23 20:04:27 <spyderous>	i think what's missing is an official tier of people willing to help users
Jul 23 20:04:58 <g2boojum>	Brandy: Actually, we want to create the reality as well as the appearance.  I think klieber's asking if there's a _specific_ proposal that we're supposed to be considering.
Jul 23 20:05:06 <klieber>	indeed.
Jul 23 20:05:34 <Stuart>	then I want to make such a proposal, if I may
Jul 23 20:05:59 <seemant>	please
Jul 23 20:06:04 <Stuart>	k - thanks
Jul 23 20:06:15 <Stuart>	apologies if it's too specific and narrow for the group
Jul 23 20:06:22 *	avenj likes specifics
Jul 23 20:06:36 <tberman>	Stuart: do it in visio man, those charts were awesome
Jul 23 20:06:52 <Stuart>	I want to chair a user meeting on IRC about the webapps mess - and I want it publicised in GWN well in advance
Jul 23 20:07:11 <Stuart>	users who can't attend will be invited to email their opinions and suggestions instead
Jul 23 20:07:39 <spyderous>	the goal?
Jul 23 20:08:00 <Stuart>	the goal is to find out how our users think we should be installing webapps on their machines
Jul 23 20:08:18 <Stuart>	before we go ahead and write a tonne of ebuilds to do the job
Jul 23 20:08:37 <tberman>	Stuart: while i agree a level of dev->user interaction is a must, and very very good, a user irc meeting about it is the wrong way to go imo
Jul 23 20:08:42 <tberman>	use the gentoo-dev mailing list
Jul 23 20:08:46 <tberman>	thats what its for
Jul 23 20:08:53 <seemant>	klieber: on a related note -- method said you and him had talked about a wiki (tikiwiki?) -- how far away are we from that
Jul 23 20:08:58 <tberman>	and then you dont just get the corner case of users free at that time who are willing to irc
Jul 23 20:09:10 <seemant>	seeing as we've gotten waaaay off the agenda anyway :/
Jul 23 20:09:15 <klieber>	seemant: method was supposed to set up a proof-of-concept box while I secured some more permanent hardware.
Jul 23 20:09:18 <spyderous>	ok, let me sum up my points one last time.
Jul 23 20:09:19 <spyderous>	1) improved attitudes, 2) improved approachability, especially about development issues 3) simply ask devs who can to help out more 4) inform users what resources are available
Jul 23 20:09:24 <Stuart>	tberman: that's why you have to run two or three different chats at different times
Jul 23 20:09:24 <spyderous>	people disagreed with 2
Jul 23 20:09:25 <klieber>	seemant: I think method is still working on his side of thins
Jul 23 20:09:28 <spyderous>	agreed with the rest
Jul 23 20:09:32 -->	coredumb (hidden-use@212.199.104.98) has joined #gentoo-devrel
Jul 23 20:09:49 <seemant>	klieber: I think php-team is working on ebuilding tikiwiki at least (I emailed them about it last night)
Jul 23 20:09:56 <klieber>	seemant: cool
Jul 23 20:10:02 <Stuart>	seemant: I emailed you back about tikiwiki
Jul 23 20:10:06 <seemant>	Stuart: yep :)
Jul 23 20:10:10 <avenj>	spyderous: i think we're looking for specifics about those items
Jul 23 20:10:41 <Stuart>	seemant: I can hack something together for tikiwiki quickly, while we sort out the webapps mess
Jul 23 20:10:48 <g2boojum>	Stuart, tberman: I think we can leave the methods for gathering user input up to the devs who are interested.
Jul 23 20:11:10 <Stuart>	g2boojum: then you don't mind me going ahead with my proposal?
Jul 23 20:11:35 <tberman>	g2boojum: true, poing :)
Jul 23 20:11:36 <tberman>	er
Jul 23 20:11:37 <tberman>	point
Jul 23 20:11:38 <seemant>	Stuart: that would be nice
Jul 23 20:11:40 <g2boojum>	Stuart: No, I certainly don't mind.  I don't think I should really have any say in the matter.
Jul 23 20:11:49 <spyderous>	i didn't realize i was going to talk so much. i'll put some more specifics together and send out an email or something.
Jul 23 20:11:59 <seemant>	ok, so moving on
Jul 23 20:12:12 <seemant>	how are we feeling about the Conflict Resolution/Ombudsman project idea?
Jul 23 20:12:14 <seemant>	klieber: ?
Jul 23 20:12:17 <tberman>	i love it
Jul 23 20:12:39 *	g2boojum won't have his page up until Friday.
Jul 23 20:12:44 <klieber>	seemant: no strong opinions one way or the other.  
Jul 23 20:13:08 <seemant>	klieber: can you summarise your weaker feelings?
Jul 23 20:13:21 <spyderous>	g2boojum: are you able to quickly summarize the ombudsman's role? i don't remember the result of the discussion
Jul 23 20:13:31 <Brandy>	I the Ombudsman a single individual, or is conflict resolution handled by a board?
Jul 23 20:13:32 <seemant>	spyderous: check the GLEP
Jul 23 20:13:36 <Brandy>	s/I/Is
Jul 23 20:13:43 <tberman>	Brandy: you too
Jul 23 20:14:18 <klieber>	seemant: same as I said before -- i'm mostly concerned with greasing squeeks and not solving the underlying issues.
Jul 23 20:14:25 <spyderous>	ah, he mentioned the page wouldn't be up til friday so i thought there were changes.
Jul 23 20:14:28 <klieber>	that said, I still see this position as a decent pressure valve
Jul 23 20:14:30 <g2boojum>	Brandy: individual.  The ombudsman mediates.  It's the managers who have to make decisions.
Jul 23 20:14:51 <seemant>	klieber: so as a pressure valve, you're ok with at least experimenting with the idea?
Jul 23 20:14:54 <klieber>	sure
Jul 23 20:15:21 <seemant>	g2boojum: kk, when you have page ready, lemme know and we'll move it from planned to active subproject
Jul 23 20:15:25 <seemant>	that was quick :)
Jul 23 20:15:27 <g2boojum>	seemant: k
Jul 23 20:15:42 <seemant>	Brandy: an update on User Rel from you?
Jul 23 20:15:44 <spyderous>	what's done to ensure the ombudsman has no conflicts of interest?
Jul 23 20:16:06 <tberman>	spyderous: there is a backup
Jul 23 20:16:19 <Brandy>	The user-rel page is up. It's rudimentary but does contain usable info
Jul 23 20:16:33 <Brandy>	I'm looking at adding a FAQ this week or so
Jul 23 20:17:27 <g2boojum>	Brandy: If you do, please let swift know.  If we're going to be distributing docs around the website, we need to make sure our docs team knows about them.
Jul 23 20:17:42 <avenj>	i don't think the docs team should necessarily have to review everything under each top level project
Jul 23 20:17:43 <Brandy>	And I'm also not sure how many devs will actually read info placed on user-rel, so I'm considering sending a weekly update of user-issues to the -dev mailing list
Jul 23 20:17:45 <avenj>	there's just too much there
Jul 23 20:18:00 <avenj>	but there haven't been any actual decisions on the scope of the docs project with regards to top level project documentation
Jul 23 20:18:14 <seemant>	Brandy: the -dev ml update is a good idea for sure
Jul 23 20:18:15 <Brandy>	g2boojum: will do - which reminds me, I'm looking at contributing to a newbie's guide to Gentoo
Jul 23 20:18:38 <g2boojum>	avenj: I didn't mean they need to review it; but they need to make sure there's a link to that faq from the general faq (or some other way of easily finding it)
Jul 23 20:18:44 <avenj>	g2boojum: i agree
Jul 23 20:18:50 <seemant>	avenj: agreed -- where possible we should try and co-ordinate with them so they know about the docs we're bringing online
Jul 23 20:19:10 <avenj>	i think we should perhaps add a section to the main docs page for top-level project documentation (links to it, that is)
Jul 23 20:19:34 <seemant>	which reminds me
Jul 23 20:19:50 <seemant>	klieber: any ETA on when the project pages will be click-to'able?
Jul 23 20:20:19 <klieber>	seemant: pauldv is putting together an index.  as soon as that is done, we'll link to that page from the front page.
Jul 23 20:20:34 <seemant>	klieber: oh excellent! thanks 
Jul 23 20:20:36 <klieber>	in the managers meeting, pauldv was talking about mon. or tues.
Jul 23 20:20:40 <g2boojum>	avenj: I sort-of agree.  Our top-level projects aren't necessarily intuitive for our users, so I'd prefer a more comprehensive solution.
Jul 23 20:20:53 <g2boojum>	avenj: For the short-term, though, a link would be great!
Jul 23 20:21:11 <seemant>	klieber: that's great news
Jul 23 20:21:54 <seemant>	Brandy: GWN?
Jul 23 20:22:41 <Brandy>	Where are we on announcing Dev-Rel to the userbase? I feel that User-Rel at least could be
Jul 23 20:22:55 <tberman>	im wondering if someone is going to look at a potential site redesign for gentoo, imo, and its just my opinion, but the site design is pretty antiquated and difficult to deal with
Jul 23 20:23:06 <klieber>	tberman: yes
Jul 23 20:23:22 <klieber>	tberman: if you know of any professional graphic designers willing to donate their services, please have them contact me
Jul 23 20:23:25 <Stuart>	tberman: site looks fine, but the site map needs fixing
Jul 23 20:23:28 <tberman>	klieber: i do
Jul 23 20:23:35 <klieber>	tberman: cool -- have them drop me a line
Jul 23 20:23:41 <seemant>	anyone object to us announcing User Rel on next week's GWN then?
Jul 23 20:23:47 <klieber>	tberman: daniel also knows a few people as I understand it
Jul 23 20:23:49 <tberman>	klieber: he can be a pain to deal with sometimes, and a bit slow, but he will work for free, and on whatever i tell him too
Jul 23 20:23:54 <g2boojum>	fine w/ me
Jul 23 20:23:54 <klieber>	lol
Jul 23 20:24:05 <tberman>	klieber: it will be easier for you to interface with him through me, trust me
Jul 23 20:24:09 <spyderous>	sounds like a brother
Jul 23 20:24:16 <seemant>	avenj: klieber: spyderous: ?
Jul 23 20:24:17 <tberman>	spyderous: gah, no
Jul 23 20:24:20 <klieber>	tberman: ok -- we can talk more later.
Jul 23 20:24:20 <seemant>	coredumb: ?
Jul 23 20:24:22 <tberman>	klieber: k
Jul 23 20:24:23 <klieber>	seemant: no objections
Jul 23 20:24:28 <spyderous>	sounds good
Jul 23 20:24:30 <coredumb>	seemant: ok
Jul 23 20:24:30 <tberman>	klieber: the issue for me is less graphics and more general interface
Jul 23 20:24:41 <avenj>	seemant: no objections
Jul 23 20:24:51 <seemant>	Brandy: as you say, so it will be
Jul 23 20:24:59 <Brandy>	excellent :)
Jul 23 20:25:05 <seemant>	thanks everyone
Jul 23 20:25:12 <seemant>	sorry to have let it run over as it did
Jul 23 20:25:15 <Brandy>	before we go
Jul 23 20:25:27 <Brandy>	can we set up a set time for meetings?
Jul 23 20:25:44 <seemant>	may as well, since we're all here
Jul 23 20:26:06 <seemant>	the more restrictive people seem to be: coredumb & Brandy, possibly g2boojum and klieber
Jul 23 20:26:21 <klieber>	this time works well for me.
Jul 23 20:26:23 <coredumb>	i'm not restrictive, just tired.. :)
Jul 23 20:26:38 <seemant>	coredumb: well, I'd like to be able to accommodate something more convenient for you
Jul 23 20:26:46 <Brandy>	coredumb: what's the local time?
Jul 23 20:26:53 <coredumb>	03:27
Jul 23 20:27:04 <Brandy>	coredumb: ouch
Jul 23 20:27:27 <spyderous>	how about 2100 utc tuesdays?
Jul 23 20:27:48 <klieber>	can't do that, personally
Jul 23 20:27:54 <klieber>	but I'm not sure how much time I'm going to have.
Jul 23 20:28:01 <klieber>	so if that works for everyone else, please go ahead with it.
Jul 23 20:28:02 <tberman>	god with this utc stuff, i cant figure it out
Jul 23 20:28:08 <coredumb>	hmm
Jul 23 20:28:18 <g2boojum>	tberman: date -u
Jul 23 20:28:19 <tberman>	5pm tuesdays eastern?
Jul 23 20:28:31 <tberman>	g2boojum: yes, i know that, but then i have to still do the basic math ;p
Jul 23 20:28:44 <coredumb>	midnight here
Jul 23 20:28:48 <spyderous>	klieber: when can you?
Jul 23 20:28:59 <coredumb>	any chance to have that on monday?
Jul 23 20:29:16 <seemant>	coredumb: manager's meeting is 1800 UTC on monday
Jul 23 20:29:25 <spyderous>	how about 2000 utc monday 
Jul 23 20:29:26 <klieber>	spyderous: really, about all I can do is in the 0200 - 0400 UTC timeframe  in weekly meetings.
Jul 23 20:29:27 <seemant>	coredumb: we can do it before or after I suppose
Jul 23 20:29:33 *	Stuart waves goodnight
Jul 23 20:29:35 <spyderous>	oh, bummer klieber
Jul 23 20:29:37 <--	Stuart (~stuart@myrddraal.demon.co.uk) has left #gentoo-devrel
Jul 23 20:29:47 <klieber>	like I said -- you shouldn't schedule around me.
Jul 23 20:30:02 <coredumb>	hm, is friday night (here) ok?
Jul 23 20:30:04 <seemant>	klieber: eh? 02 - 04?
Jul 23 20:30:11 <seemant>	klieber: aren't you in bed by then
Jul 23 20:30:11 <seemant>	?
Jul 23 20:30:15 <tberman>	seemant: UTC
Jul 23 20:30:18 <klieber>	UTC? no
Jul 23 20:30:21 <coredumb>	23UTC friday???
Jul 23 20:30:27 <coredumb>	er
Jul 23 20:30:27 <spyderous>	that's...10p-12a eastern?
Jul 23 20:30:29 <klieber>	that's 8pm - 10pm my time
Jul 23 20:30:30 <coredumb>	tooooooooo many ? :)
Jul 23 20:30:53 <seemant>	klieber: oh I thought it was 10-midnight your time
Jul 23 20:31:06 <klieber>	oops -- I was wrong.
Jul 23 20:31:11 <g2boojum>	coredumb: My wife rather likes spending Friday nights w/ her husband.
Jul 23 20:31:18 <klieber>	so I can do most things 2300 - 0100 UTC
Jul 23 20:31:21 *	klieber hugs date -u
Jul 23 20:31:28 <seemant>	g2boojum: cool, then when she's gone you can meet with us :P
Jul 23 20:31:36 <tberman>	hah
Jul 23 20:31:40 <spyderous>	could work wednesday
Jul 23 20:31:40 <spyderous>	but way too late for coredumb, maybe Brandy too
Jul 23 20:31:40 <coredumb>	hm
Jul 23 20:31:43 <coredumb>	thursdays?
Jul 23 20:31:56 <seemant>	Brandy: what's your free times?
Jul 23 20:32:00 <seemant>	coredumb: what are yours?
Jul 23 20:32:02 <Brandy>	spyderous: what time is too late for me?
Jul 23 20:32:09 <spyderous>	Brandy: i have no idea.
Jul 23 20:32:19 <seemant>	does 2300-0100 UTC on any weekday suit anyone?
Jul 23 20:32:19 <coredumb>	seemant: depends if i work or not :)
Jul 23 20:32:28 <Brandy>	I'm ok 2300-0100 UTC Sundays and Wednesdays
Jul 23 20:32:36 <g2boojum>	seemant: works for me.
Jul 23 20:32:46 <coredumb>	but i never work fridays, saturdays and usually not tuesdays
Jul 23 20:33:05 <spyderous>	that's bad monday, and open at 2400 wednesday
Jul 23 20:33:06 <coredumb>	seemant: too late usually
Jul 23 20:33:52 <seemant>	klieber: lunchish hour for you on another day?
Jul 23 20:34:27 <seemant>	Brandy: can you go earlier on any particular day?
Jul 23 20:34:36 <klieber>	seemant: I can't do any more daily meetings -- one a week is about all I can work into my schedule.
Jul 23 20:34:45 <klieber>	"daily" meaning during the workday for me
Jul 23 20:34:49 <seemant>	klieber: understood
Jul 23 20:35:00 <Brandy>	seemant: I could do 2100 - 2300 UTC any weekday
Jul 23 20:35:09 <tberman>	why dont you guys try a during the weekend meeting
Jul 23 20:35:28 <coredumb>	tberman: i'm trying.. :)
Jul 23 20:35:30 <spyderous>	weekends are bad except sunday from about..2300 on
Jul 23 20:35:30 <tberman>	like a early afternoon sunday, would be late sunday for coredumb, and early sunday for brandy (i think)
Jul 23 20:35:43 <seemant>	early monday for her
Jul 23 20:35:51 <klieber>	sunday is wife day for me.
Jul 23 20:35:54 <tberman>	oh
Jul 23 20:35:57 <klieber>	sunday evenings are generally OK.
Jul 23 20:36:05 <tberman>	see, im so eastern time zone centric, i forgot about the IDL
Jul 23 20:36:33 <seemant>	honestly seems like wedesday 2300 UTC is the most convenient :/
Jul 23 20:36:36 <coredumb>	hrhr, here we work on sundays..
Jul 23 20:38:15 <seemant>	we can try to do a lot more discussion on the mail alias though
Jul 23 20:38:32 <coredumb>	hm, yea
