May 19 15:01:35 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the May 19, 2013 Gentoo Foundation Inc. trustees meeting.
May 19 15:01:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call.
May 19 15:02:00 <_robbat2|irssi>	yo
May 19 15:02:03 <dabbott>	here
May 19 15:02:04 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, quantumsummers rich0 dabbott 
May 19 15:02:12 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm logging
May 19 15:02:52 <_robbat2|irssi>	give rich0 and quantumsummers a few mins?
May 19 15:03:02 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, said he may be on the road.  I guess quantumsummers might be busy too
May 19 15:03:06 <NeddySeagoon>	OK
May 19 15:06:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets start, the three of us is a quorum ... we can update rich0 and quantumsummers if they join
May 19 15:06:30 <_robbat2|irssi>	ok
May 19 15:06:52 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, It looks like you are first with Initiate Trustee Election
May 19 15:07:40 <dabbott>	I am just following this http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/secretary/activities/trustee-election.xml
May 19 15:08:21 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thats fine.  After today, its update the members list and have elections kick it off.
May 19 15:08:58 <dabbott>	got it jmbsvicetto said he will be busy not sure who can do it
May 19 15:09:37 <dabbott>	maybe Tommy[D]
May 19 15:09:38 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I can do some of it if we are stuck but as a trustee, I would rather not.
May 19 15:09:41 <_robbat2|irssi>	given that i'm not running again, I can be an EO for this one
May 19 15:10:06 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, thanks.
May 19 15:10:44 <NeddySeagoon>	We may as well move onto bugs.
May 19 15:11:12 <NeddySeagoon>	 Bug 466716
May 19 15:11:30 <_robbat2|irssi>	hmm, where is that bot!
May 19 15:11:51 <NeddySeagoon>	I think we need a vote on this one so that quantumsummers has a mandate to write the cheque
May 19 15:11:58 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, its a secure bug
May 19 15:12:21 <_robbat2|irssi>	(the bot is also awol)
May 19 15:12:49 <dabbott>	we were going for yearly this year correct
May 19 15:13:28 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, for this year only.  Next year, OUSL has other fundraising plans 
May 19 15:13:29 <_robbat2|irssi>	is there any discussion needed from y'all?
May 19 15:13:41 <NeddySeagoon>	Not really -  
May 19 15:13:45 <NeddySeagoon>	I vote Aye
May 19 15:13:51 <_robbat2|irssi>	<hat type="infra">I fully support the OSL donation plan</hat>
May 19 15:13:51 <dabbott>	none here i vote yes
May 19 15:13:55 <_robbat2|irssi>	I also vote aye
May 19 15:14:16 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: cut the check
May 19 15:14:20 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion Carried.  Would someone update the bug please?
May 19 15:14:49 <dabbott>	ok will do
May 19 15:15:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Bug 429578.  Should there be some attachments by now ?
May 19 15:15:36 *	NeddySeagoon looks at _robbat2|irssi 
May 19 15:16:03 <_robbat2|irssi>	that's a really old bug, it was infra looking for any docs that trustees other than me had
May 19 15:16:48 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, do we need it?  We may not have an infra- rep on the board next year
May 19 15:17:40 <_robbat2|irssi>	more specifically, we're looking for the ones for the boxes purchased with the gsoc funds a few years ago, plus the ganeti boxes purchased last year
May 19 15:17:57 <_robbat2|irssi>	i think quantumsummers has all of them
May 19 15:18:18 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, we do need it then ... lets leave the bug for now.
May 19 15:19:26 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, having an -infra guy on the board has worked really well four us this year.  Is there another -infra person that we might prevail on to stand ?
May 19 15:19:52 <_robbat2|irssi>	i can ask them to consider running, but most of them are quite busy
May 19 15:19:57 <_robbat2|irssi>	while i'm not planning on running
May 19 15:20:04 <_robbat2|irssi>	i am willing to keep attending meetings
May 19 15:20:33 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, that would work - an non-exec, non-voting board member
May 19 15:21:40 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't think we need to review any other bugs today
May 19 15:22:19 <NeddySeagoon>	That brings us to Membership Applications.
May 19 15:22:47 <NeddySeagoon>	As they are all Gentoo Devs, I thihnk we can deal with them in one vote.
May 19 15:23:07 <NeddySeagoon>	All those in favour our our 7 new members please say Aye
May 19 15:23:11 <_robbat2|irssi>	aye
May 19 15:23:15 <NeddySeagoon>	Aye.
May 19 15:23:27 <dabbott>	yes to all
May 19 15:23:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Motion carried - I'll do the emails.
May 19 15:23:54 <dabbott>	thanks NeddySeagoon 
May 19 15:24:38 <NeddySeagoon>	I thought we had an Advertising Request ... it was more a paid suppoer ad request
May 19 15:24:55 <_robbat2|irssi>	hmm, let me check my email
May 19 15:25:19 <dabbott>	someone wanted to wire us a donation
May 19 15:25:25 <_robbat2|irssi>	ah right
May 19 15:25:50 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, was going to take care of it
May 19 15:25:56 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: was going to check into it through paypal or the bank
May 19 15:26:10 <_robbat2|irssi>	yeah, we don't have any other details of who the donor is even
May 19 15:26:16 <_robbat2|irssi>	other than an email address that's quite anonymous
May 19 15:26:24 <NeddySeagoon>	I can't find the email.  Maybe it was last month 
May 19 15:26:31 <_robbat2|irssi>	may 13th
May 19 15:26:46 <dabbott>	i forwarded it from pr@
May 19 15:26:48 <_robbat2|irssi>	subjects 'Re: Donation' and 'Fwd: Donation'
May 19 15:26:57 <NeddySeagoon>	Not that one ... the paid support ad request
May 19 15:27:45 <_robbat2|irssi>	ah there , apr 1st
May 19 15:27:50 <_robbat2|irssi>	Subject: Comercial Gentoo support                                                                                                                                                                                              
May 19 15:27:59 <_robbat2|irssi>	Ixit.cz
May 19 15:28:39 <_robbat2|irssi>	i see no issues if Tomas sent him to us
May 19 15:28:59 <_robbat2|irssi>	just need to get ad copy from him for the paid support page
May 19 15:29:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Me neither. 
May 19 15:29:19 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, yep.
May 19 15:29:41 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, you want to follow up please ?
May 19 15:29:58 <dabbott>	I think he want to provide support to people using Gentoo commercially
May 19 15:30:17 <_robbat2|irssi>	http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/consultants.xml
May 19 15:30:24 <_robbat2|irssi>	was the page to put them on
May 19 15:30:29 <_robbat2|irssi>	like axant
May 19 15:30:38 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, yes - we can give him an ad on the paid support page.
May 19 15:30:52 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, thats it
May 19 15:31:00 <dabbott>	ok I will get with him
May 19 15:31:05 <_robbat2|irssi>	hmm, we should also ask bonsaikitten if his support offering is still open, as the link is dead
May 19 15:31:07 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
May 19 15:31:19 <quantumsummers>	sorry I'm late
May 19 15:31:27 <_robbat2|irssi>	ditto flameeys' support offering
May 19 15:31:35 <NeddySeagoon>	Hi quantumsummers hows the family ?
May 19 15:31:36 <dabbott>	_robbat2|irssi: i will ask him
May 19 15:31:48 <dabbott>	and fix the link
May 19 15:32:11 <dabbott>	ditto :)
May 19 15:32:26 <quantumsummers>	I will mail the check Monday or so
May 19 15:32:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Thanks quantumsummers 
May 19 15:32:34 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: family is great
May 19 15:32:46 <quantumsummers>	baby girl has had a pleasant first week
May 19 15:32:58 <dabbott>	congrats ++
May 19 15:33:07 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, I'm pleased they are all doing well
May 19 15:33:08 <quantumsummers>	thanks
May 19 15:33:17 <quantumsummers>	did we get an email from ago today?
May 19 15:33:22 <quantumsummers>	trustees@ that is
May 19 15:33:40 <_robbat2|irssi>	not that i've seen
May 19 15:33:42 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, not that I have seen
May 19 15:34:30 <dabbott>	here is the latest members list with todays dev's included http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/20130519_members_list.xml <+ please review
May 19 15:34:43 <quantumsummers>	hmm, well one should arrive soon I suppose
May 19 15:34:53 <quantumsummers>	thanks dabbott
May 19 15:34:57 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, do you want to say anything about our 501(c)(3) registration status before we move on ?
May 19 15:35:14 <quantumsummers>	not too much happening
May 19 15:35:24 <quantumsummers>	just getting ready for the end of the FY
May 19 15:35:29 <dabbott>	its in the news the hold ups etc
May 19 15:35:30 <quantumsummers>	then things will pick up some
May 19 15:35:44 <NeddySeagoon>	From [Foundations] it looks like the IRS has it in for applications like ours too
May 19 15:36:02 <_robbat2|irssi>	dabbott: date on that file is wrong, says may 9th
May 19 15:36:08 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: this is the case, yes
May 19 15:36:26 <quantumsummers>	of course, with the recent shakeup, we may be in for better luck
May 19 15:36:39 <NeddySeagoon>	recent shakeup ?
May 19 15:36:43 <dabbott>	robbat2: i put it together then when i had some time will update
May 19 15:36:56 <quantumsummers>	yes, IRS head was canned, etc. Been in the news
May 19 15:37:13 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, Not here it hasn't  :)
May 19 15:37:24 <NeddySeagoon>	but its good to know
May 19 15:37:28 <quantumsummers>	"unfair scrutiny" or similar for some 501c* applications
May 19 15:37:39 <quantumsummers>	mainly c3 and c4
May 19 15:37:46 <quantumsummers>	anyway, google it, fairly interesting
May 19 15:37:48 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers OK, I'll googl
May 19 15:37:54 <_robbat2|irssi>	i do have one AoB item to mention
May 19 15:38:09 <NeddySeagoon>	OK, leys do AoB now#
May 19 15:38:20 <_robbat2|irssi>	so my item, is an update on the SSL
May 19 15:38:27 <_robbat2|irssi>	the need for it is increasing w/ some of the portage issues
May 19 15:38:41 <_robbat2|irssi>	i was trying to get disconuts/free, but that's never quite worked out
May 19 15:39:04 <quantumsummers>	lets just go with verisign and bite hte bullet
May 19 15:39:05 <_robbat2|irssi>	so I wanted to check that a ballpark $500/year is going to be acceptable - basically gives us unlimited certs for that
May 19 15:39:12 <quantumsummers>	wfm
May 19 15:39:24 <quantumsummers>	who is the CA?
May 19 15:39:25 <_robbat2|irssi>	$500/year from digicert, for unlimited certs under gentoo.org
May 19 15:39:30 <NeddySeagoon>	If we need it, lets do it  +1
May 19 15:39:35 <dabbott>	+1
May 19 15:39:39 <quantumsummers>	+1
May 19 15:39:39 <_robbat2|irssi>	ok, i'll put in an actual funding request for it
May 19 15:39:46 <_robbat2|irssi>	because it's kind of pricy
May 19 15:40:04 <quantumsummers>	very good, _robbat2|irssi, who will be technical contact and all that jazz?
May 19 15:40:08 <NeddySeagoon>	That works.  It guess its the going rate
May 19 15:40:40 <_robbat2|irssi>	infra will be the contact point, they've got an API as well (that I already have working code for) to generate certs quick&easy
May 19 15:40:46 <quantumsummers>	I think that is a pretty good price for unlimited
May 19 15:40:56 <quantumsummers>	so its not a wildcad
May 19 15:41:01 <quantumsummers>	**wildcard
May 19 15:41:22 <_robbat2|irssi>	http://www.digicert.com/wildcard-ssl-certificates.htm
May 19 15:41:27 <_robbat2|irssi>	that's the offering
May 19 15:41:43 <_robbat2|irssi>	it's not wildcard, but unlimited SANs
May 19 15:41:46 <_robbat2|irssi>	~6 per cert
May 19 15:42:13 <_robbat2|irssi>	and a wildcard at the top level
May 19 15:42:26 <quantumsummers>	sounds great
May 19 15:42:41 <NeddySeagoon>	Sounds good to me
May 19 15:42:42 <_robbat2|irssi>	https://nagios.sitka.bclibraries.ca/public/dashboard/ <-- look at the cert on that site for an example
May 19 15:42:50 *	quantumsummers would love to see the code too, since I need to look at renewing shortly
May 19 15:43:03 <quantumsummers>	I am with thawte now, and it is too expensive really
May 19 15:43:14 <quantumsummers>	the unlimited server bit looks really nice
May 19 15:43:17 <_robbat2|irssi>	if you just need a few certs and you know ahead of time, there are much cheaper options
May 19 15:43:24 <_robbat2|irssi>	or simple wildcards
May 19 15:43:39 <_robbat2|irssi>	the digicert offering is the best ongoing issuance option
May 19 15:43:47 <quantumsummers>	excellent
May 19 15:44:16 <_robbat2|irssi>	oh, we will need to look at a seperate cheap wildcard for bugzie
May 19 15:44:26 <quantumsummers>	_robbat2|irssi: why is that?
May 19 15:44:29 <_robbat2|irssi>	since the digicert offering will only be a toplevel wildcard
May 19 15:44:33 <quantumsummers>	ah
May 19 15:44:43 <_robbat2|irssi>	and bugzie attachments need an additional wildcard
May 19 15:44:47 <quantumsummers>	right
May 19 15:44:47 <_robbat2|irssi>	to match *.bugs.gentoo.org
May 19 15:44:54 <_robbat2|irssi>	that we just go with a cheap wildcard
May 19 15:45:17 <_robbat2|irssi>	i'll put all of it in the funding request
May 19 15:45:23 <quantumsummers>	ok
May 19 15:45:24 <_robbat2|irssi>	and get more eyeballs on it
May 19 15:45:28 <_robbat2|irssi>	before we hit go
May 19 15:45:51 <_robbat2|irssi>	that's my AoB done
May 19 15:46:08 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, it looks like you have thought it all through.  Write up your funding request for the total cost of SSL certs for everything.
May 19 15:46:33 <NeddySeagoon>	Any more AoB ?  None from me
May 19 15:46:39 <quantumsummers>	not here
May 19 15:46:45 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, ?
May 19 15:47:37 <dabbott>	none here :)
May 19 15:48:02 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 16 Jun 2013 19:00 UTC.  I will not be around.  My wifte is looking for somewhere with no phone coberage and no internet
May 19 15:48:39 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats Fathers day in the USA too
May 19 15:48:49 <_robbat2|irssi>	given that we have a quorum now, can we announce the recording date now (2 months ahead?)
May 19 15:49:14 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, yes.  Today is the recording date for the election
May 19 15:49:26 <dabbott>	ok noted
May 19 15:49:35 <_robbat2|irssi>	err from the other thread it wasn't clear if it was today or next month
May 19 15:50:12 <NeddySeagoon>	The members list as it is at the end of this meeting defines who is qualified to vote or stand in the election
May 19 15:50:52 <dabbott>	lets move next month to 23
May 19 15:51:05 <NeddySeagoon>	We need to update -foundations-announce and the members list for use in the election in the next two weeks
May 19 15:51:08 <_robbat2|irssi>	rich0's mail said announce a june recording date in may, but then he thought he was a month ahead of shcedule
May 19 15:51:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Roughly 4 weeks nominations in June, 4 weeks to vote in July.  New board meets mid Aug
May 19 15:52:09 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: can you do that this time so I can see it done, im not real clear really
May 19 15:52:19 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, sure
May 19 15:52:37 <NeddySeagoon>	I need -foundations-announce updated first
May 19 15:53:00 <_robbat2|irssi>	quantumsummers: can you give me the diff of your members email data?
May 19 15:53:06 <_robbat2|irssi>	or just before/after snaps
May 19 15:53:10 <_robbat2|irssi>	and i'll apply that to the list
May 19 15:53:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Shall we move next months meeting to 23rd June ?
May 19 15:53:38 <dabbott>	yes
May 19 15:53:48 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, you need to get todays new members
May 19 15:54:10 <_robbat2|irssi>	yes June 23rd works, i might just be a few mins late
May 19 15:54:13 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, _robbat2|irssi Does 23rd June work for our next meeting ? 
May 19 15:54:24 <_robbat2|irssi>	as I have a normal work meeting 16:00-19:00 UTC that day
May 19 15:54:36 <_robbat2|irssi>	err
May 19 15:54:51 <_robbat2|irssi>	i looked at may 23rd
May 19 15:54:58 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat2|irssi, Thats a Sunday ...  you must work some strange hours
May 19 15:54:59 <_robbat2|irssi>	yes, it works
May 19 15:55:33 <_robbat2|irssi>	NeddySeagoon: a variable 40-70 hours ;-)
May 19 15:55:48 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, how does June 23rd work for you ?
May 19 15:56:55 <NeddySeagoon>	OK, we have 3 infavour of June 23.  Lets move the meeting by one week. Same time and place
May 19 15:57:30 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll post the log and write to our new members.
May 19 15:57:33 <dabbott>	I will do the 2 motions
May 19 15:57:44 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, can you do motions please ?
May 19 15:57:55 <dabbott>	yep
May 19 15:58:07 <NeddySeagoon>	That brings us to Open Floor
May 19 15:59:34 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
