Nov 17 14:02:37 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the virtual gavel to open the November meeting
Nov 17 14:02:46 <Betelgeuse>	hello
Nov 17 14:02:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call
Nov 17 14:03:06 <dabbott>	present 
Nov 17 14:03:09 *	quantumsummers is present
Nov 17 14:03:13 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, quantumsummers dabbott ?
Nov 17 14:03:14 <SwifT>	persent
Nov 17 14:03:19 <SwifT>	err, present
Nov 17 14:03:45 <NeddySeagoon>	we have a quorum
Nov 17 14:03:53 *	quantumsummers pokes Betelgeuse
Nov 17 14:03:59 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm logging
Nov 17 14:04:06 <dabbott>	me too
Nov 17 14:04:25 <dabbott>	make sure to reload the agenda
Nov 17 14:04:26 <NeddySeagoon>	well, my logger is here ...
Nov 17 14:04:30 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: wazza?
Nov 17 14:04:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Foundation Activity Tracker ...
Nov 17 14:04:55 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse: missed you at the summit this year :)
Nov 17 14:05:29 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: how sweat :)
Nov 17 14:05:37 <quantumsummers>	sweet I assume :D
Nov 17 14:05:47 <SwifT>	smelly sweet
Nov 17 14:05:48 <SwifT>	:)
Nov 17 14:05:49 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon, all: the only major event was the irs 990-EZ filing, which is done
Nov 17 14:05:53 <NeddySeagoon>	IRS Return 990 due 15-Nov-2013
Nov 17 14:05:56 <quantumsummers>	done
Nov 17 14:06:01 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: that too
Nov 17 14:06:13 <quantumsummers>	done did it a few weeks back actually
Nov 17 14:06:34 <dabbott>	how about the Treasurer Report?
Nov 17 14:06:37 <NeddySeagoon>	tracker needs to be updated.  Can we still get rich0 to do that ?
Nov 17 14:06:39 <quantumsummers>	mark us for Nov 15th 2014
Nov 17 14:06:43 <dabbott>	did i miss it
Nov 17 14:06:48 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: have I not sent that in yet?
Nov 17 14:06:58 <quantumsummers>	geez, ok, let me see 
Nov 17 14:07:02 <quantumsummers>	I have it somewhere
Nov 17 14:07:10 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: I will update the tracker he is busy with council
Nov 17 14:07:12 <quantumsummers>	gist, we are doing pretty well financially
Nov 17 14:07:31 <quantumsummers>	more income that expenses
Nov 17 14:07:31 <NeddySeagoon>	the slacker :)
Nov 17 14:08:08 <quantumsummers>	when you get to my section of things, I have some items
Nov 17 14:08:13 <quantumsummers>	though new business
Nov 17 14:08:32 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, was going to send me a patch for the presidents report too
Nov 17 14:09:01 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, you have the floor
Nov 17 14:09:17 <quantumsummers>	thanks
Nov 17 14:09:19 <NeddySeagoon>	Financial | Legal Status ...
Nov 17 14:09:30 <robbat2>	sorry, i totally forgot
Nov 17 14:09:31 <quantumsummers>	so I have 2 groups looking at long-term donation/support
Nov 17 14:09:39 <quantumsummers>	negotiating a little with them
Nov 17 14:09:43 <quantumsummers>	so that is interesting
Nov 17 14:09:46 <robbat2>	and thanks for pinging me, because I have something in new business
Nov 17 14:10:27 <quantumsummers>	Also: we have some interest in "certifying" devs interested in doing Gentoo-related work on a contract bassis
Nov 17 14:10:30 <quantumsummers>	*basis
Nov 17 14:11:03 <quantumsummers>	so, it is similar to what we have now on the page for devs for hire
Nov 17 14:11:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Hmm .. we can certify that they are devs
Nov 17 14:11:19 <quantumsummers>	though the idea was to have them donate some portion
Nov 17 14:11:42 <quantumsummers>	have a section for those that support gentoo via donating some portion of the contract value
Nov 17 14:11:43 <dabbott>	http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/consultants.xml
Nov 17 14:11:53 <quantumsummers>	exactly
Nov 17 14:12:05 <quantumsummers>	also Donnie has insisted that I put my company on there
Nov 17 14:12:21 <quantumsummers>	this all came from a convo with Donnie, Lance, Seemant, and Denis
Nov 17 14:12:23 <NeddySeagoon>	why not quantumsummers ?
Nov 17 14:12:50 <quantumsummers>	well, I had some concerns about conflict of interest, however I think those are all moot now
Nov 17 14:13:12 <quantumsummers>	after some discussion with my attorney and the Gentoo CPA, they thought it would be no biggie
Nov 17 14:13:17 <quantumsummers>	so I would like to be on there
Nov 17 14:13:41 <quantumsummers>	also, I am working up a proposal that would include some donation to the foundation based on a percentage of the contract
Nov 17 14:13:46 <quantumsummers>	this is the main thrust
Nov 17 14:13:51 <dabbott>	I say go ahead you are a dev like anyone else
Nov 17 14:13:55 <quantumsummers>	do we want something like that from peeps on that list
Nov 17 14:14:03 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't mind adding devs companies/names as long as we stop short of reccomendations
Nov 17 14:14:08 <quantumsummers>	right
Nov 17 14:14:16 <quantumsummers>	I agree with NeddySeagoon on that bit
Nov 17 14:14:43 <quantumsummers>	however, do we want to make some stipulation or identifyer that shows a donation would be made?
Nov 17 14:14:49 <quantumsummers>	on the apge
Nov 17 14:14:51 <quantumsummers>	pgae
Nov 17 14:14:56 <dabbott>	There is a disclaimer at the begining of the document
Nov 17 14:14:57 <quantumsummers>	argh, p.a.g.e.
Nov 17 14:15:12 <NeddySeagoon>	Its a caso of thes are devs for hire - you mak up your own mind if they can do your job
Nov 17 14:15:25 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: right, however what I am asking is if we want to denote who will make a donation based on an agreement
Nov 17 14:15:26 <SwifT>	i'm not sure the donation thingie would stick as a mandatory thing
Nov 17 14:15:35 <quantumsummers>	not mandatory
Nov 17 14:15:57 <quantumsummers>	just something that would denote that a donation would be made, like a badge or something
Nov 17 14:16:13 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm not concerned about the donations from devs
Nov 17 14:16:22 <quantumsummers>	ok, what about non-devs
Nov 17 14:16:27 <dabbott>	speaking of donations we still don't get the paypal emails
Nov 17 14:16:36 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I know, I need to call
Nov 17 14:16:39 <SwifT>	ah, so the devs/companies that do donate something get a specific visualization... I'm okay with that
Nov 17 14:16:47 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I fiddled with the settings, but it did nothing evidently
Nov 17 14:16:52 <quantumsummers>	SwifT: yes
Nov 17 14:16:57 <dabbott>	are they going to the spam hole
Nov 17 14:16:59 <quantumsummers>	something to that effect
Nov 17 14:17:05 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: not that I have seen
Nov 17 14:17:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Non devs ... I'm not sure ... lets run a pilot with devs first
Nov 17 14:17:28 <quantumsummers>	So, if there is some interest in this, I can draft up a doc outlining the policy for your review
Nov 17 14:17:47 <dabbott>	strange, we use to get them for every donation, I would send a thank-you note
Nov 17 14:17:48 <quantumsummers>	for example, I would be happy to give 10 % or 15 % of net
Nov 17 14:17:59 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: I know, then they just stopped
Nov 17 14:18:01 <quantumsummers>	weird
Nov 17 14:18:10 <quantumsummers>	we are still getting donations though
Nov 17 14:18:13 <quantumsummers>	regularly
Nov 17 14:18:22 <Betelgeuse>	It's not a donation if we make a contract based on income
Nov 17 14:18:29 <quantumsummers>	yes it is
Nov 17 14:18:36 <NeddySeagoon>	maybe paypal stopped tem
Nov 17 14:18:40 <NeddySeagoon>	them
Nov 17 14:18:50 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: maybe different rules there then
Nov 17 14:18:53 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: well the option to receive the emails is still there
Nov 17 14:19:05 <quantumsummers>	Betelgeuse: yes, we would make it entirely voluntary
Nov 17 14:19:16 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: then you need no contract
Nov 17 14:19:24 <quantumsummers>	not with the foundation
Nov 17 14:19:30 <quantumsummers>	I meant a contract with a client
Nov 17 14:19:42 <NeddySeagoon>	We do't want to be seen to be trading ...
Nov 17 14:19:57 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: ah ok, that's your business
Nov 17 14:19:58 <quantumsummers>	yeah, it could get a little murky
Nov 17 14:20:10 <quantumsummers>	let me paint a picture
Nov 17 14:20:22 <quantumsummers>	client finds me on that consultants page
Nov 17 14:20:33 <quantumsummers>	client agrees to contract me for 10,000 USD
Nov 17 14:20:38 <quantumsummers>	I then do the work
Nov 17 14:20:46 <quantumsummers>	lets say I net 8,000USD
Nov 17 14:20:58 <quantumsummers>	then I donate 800USD to gentoo
Nov 17 14:21:07 <quantumsummers>	happy times
Nov 17 14:21:09 <NeddySeagoon>	the IRS is too kind 
Nov 17 14:21:21 <quantumsummers>	I was not considering taxes prior to net
Nov 17 14:21:37 <quantumsummers>	anyway, just an example
Nov 17 14:21:51 <quantumsummers>	lets say there is some interest and it needs further fleshing out
Nov 17 14:22:00 <quantumsummers>	I will do that and we can talk about it at the next meeting
Nov 17 14:22:01 <SwifT>	perhaps (just a suggestion) the donation statement itself can be added/linked, so each company can tell how it would go forth
Nov 17 14:22:05 <NeddySeagoon>	I can see how it works and think its worth a try
Nov 17 14:22:05 <SwifT>	ok
Nov 17 14:22:14 <quantumsummers>	SwifT: great idea
Nov 17 14:22:31 <NeddySeagoon>	Sounds good
Nov 17 14:22:34 <quantumsummers>	cool
Nov 17 14:22:49 <quantumsummers>	let's see, I think that is the main thing I wanted to discuss
Nov 17 14:22:55 <quantumsummers>	so, therefore, I am finished
Nov 17 14:23:18 <quantumsummers>	thanks for entertaining my blather
Nov 17 14:23:21 <NeddySeagoon>	Has the CPA sent in an invoice yet ?
Nov 17 14:23:42 <quantumsummers>	no, I should receive this one any day however
Nov 17 14:23:49 <quantumsummers>	it will be < $1000
Nov 17 14:23:58 <quantumsummers>	like 975 or so
Nov 17 14:24:13 <quantumsummers>	I forget what they said
Nov 17 14:24:24 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: sounds good, thanks
Nov 17 14:24:28 <NeddySeagoon>	OK ... I'm a little unhappy it will cover wark over 3 FYs
Nov 17 14:24:29 <quantumsummers>	also, I already reimbursed all for the gsoc mentor summit
Nov 17 14:24:51 <NeddySeagoon>	sounds good
Nov 17 14:24:52 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: I think some of that went into my bill
Nov 17 14:24:56 <quantumsummers>	previously
Nov 17 14:25:00 <quantumsummers>	no biggie
Nov 17 14:25:05 <dabbott>	for sure :)
Nov 17 14:25:07 <quantumsummers>	I didnt notice
Nov 17 14:25:45 <NeddySeagoon>	OK ... as long as its kept separate from here on
Nov 17 14:25:55 <quantumsummers>	absolutely
Nov 17 14:26:23 <NeddySeagoon>	Any movement on 501(c)(3) registration status
Nov 17 14:26:32 <quantumsummers>	nothing that I have seen
Nov 17 14:26:49 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: I can help out if I get the numbers, Can we start to post a financial report every 4 months Jan, May, and the AGM in Aug?
Nov 17 14:26:52 <quantumsummers>	I'll give a call next week, probably a good idea
Nov 17 14:27:03 <quantumsummers>	dabbott: Lets do quarterly
Nov 17 14:27:05 <dabbott>	For the Jan and May only need a balance sheet listing the balances of all accounts, this could be kept on the wiki,  and for the Aug (AGM) a more detailed report.
Nov 17 14:27:16 <quantumsummers>	sure, I have been wanting to do this too
Nov 17 14:27:25 <quantumsummers>	quarterly makes more sense though
Nov 17 14:27:34 <dabbott>	ok
Nov 17 14:27:38 <quantumsummers>	and should be pretty easy
Nov 17 14:27:41 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 4 Bugs.  I've been slacking. Do we need to review bugs ?
Nov 17 14:28:33 <quantumsummers>	the only one that I have been somewhat active with is the embargoed country thing
Nov 17 14:28:51 <dabbott>	and the copyright https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=350759
Nov 17 14:29:54 <quantumsummers>	yeah, we could just stick the new year in the template or just stick a circle-C with no year
Nov 17 14:30:03 <robbat2>	i'll fix that one quickly
Nov 17 14:30:05 <quantumsummers>	I am fond of the latter
Nov 17 14:30:09 <robbat2>	since it's infra-territory
Nov 17 14:30:15 <robbat2>	no, it should be the year of the last change
Nov 17 14:30:20 <quantumsummers>	thanks robbat2
Nov 17 14:30:35 <dabbott>	robbat2: to the rescue ++
Nov 17 14:30:36 <SwifT>	I believe USA and some other countries require a year to be init
Nov 17 14:31:28 <NeddySeagoon>	any more bugs ?
Nov 17 14:32:11 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, there is nothing in new business - your turn
Nov 17 14:32:29 <robbat2>	so I went and spoke to #ntp the other day because I had a fun bug in NTP
Nov 17 14:32:39 <robbat2>	and I was approached by one of their head folk
Nov 17 14:32:48 <robbat2>	to ask if Gentoo would consider joining the NTP consortium
Nov 17 14:33:10 <robbat2>	http://nwtime.org/projects/ntp/
Nov 17 14:33:26 <robbat2>	debian and netbsd are already there
Nov 17 14:33:29 <NeddySeagoon>	What are the risks and opportunities ?
Nov 17 14:33:57 <robbat2>	they will be expanding the site to explicitly mention open-source distribution membership
Nov 17 14:34:12 <robbat2>	because distros don't quite fit under the institutional membership
Nov 17 14:34:32 <SwifT>	yeah, quite expensive otherwise :p
Nov 17 14:34:45 <dabbott>	so what is the fee
Nov 17 14:34:52 <quantumsummers>	pretty pricey
Nov 17 14:34:53 <robbat2>	from US, they'd like some reciprocal PR, and possibly a much smaller donation
Nov 17 14:35:03 <robbat2>	i was asked not to state the fee publically
Nov 17 14:35:09 <robbat2>	so I can put it in email if you want
Nov 17 14:35:13 <quantumsummers>	seems reasonable, assuming it was not too $$$
Nov 17 14:35:31 <robbat2>	what I'm trying to get from them
Nov 17 14:35:35 <robbat2>	is what value we actually get from it
Nov 17 14:35:59 <robbat2>	we already get advanced security notifications via the normal channels
Nov 17 14:36:08 <NeddySeagoon>	everone uses NTP - even Windows users
Nov 17 14:36:28 <robbat2>	i mean what value we get from the membership
Nov 17 14:36:33 <robbat2>	that we don't have otherwise
Nov 17 14:36:45 <robbat2>	if you want to do it for general goodwill, i'm fine with that
Nov 17 14:37:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Its worth following up
Nov 17 14:37:15 <SwifT>	if debian is also under that open-source distributino membership, perhaps we can ask them as well what their decision was (and reasoning) to become a member?
Nov 17 14:37:53 <quantumsummers>	good idea
Nov 17 14:38:03 <NeddySeagoon>	thers no harm in asking
Nov 17 14:38:08 <quantumsummers>	I am interested in greater collab with Debian
Nov 17 14:38:15 <quantumsummers>	esp. w.r.t. init
Nov 17 14:38:30 <quantumsummers>	anything else we can work together on is great
Nov 17 14:38:32 <robbat2>	ok, i'll discuss it a bit more with the NTP guys, and bring back a proposal
Nov 17 14:38:37 <quantumsummers>	thanks robbat2
Nov 17 14:38:49 <robbat2>	i need to get my act together and write up funding requests for some SSL certs too
Nov 17 14:39:27 <NeddySeagoon>	if we are going to support random FOSS prajects, we need some guideliness on how we pick and choose
Nov 17 14:40:03 <NeddySeagoon>	any more robbat2 ?
Nov 17 14:40:05 <quantumsummers>	(reminds me, I do have another New Business item)
Nov 17 14:40:09 <robbat2>	that's it from me
Nov 17 14:40:22 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers, ...
Nov 17 14:40:25 <quantumsummers>	ok
Nov 17 14:40:27 <quantumsummers>	thanks
Nov 17 14:40:53 <quantumsummers>	so I talked with our previous SFLC rep at the mentor summit. Karen Sandler now is the Exec Director at the Gnome Foundation
Nov 17 14:41:11 <quantumsummers>	they have a GSOC style program called Outreach Program for Women
Nov 17 14:41:17 <quantumsummers>	I would like Gentoo to participate
Nov 17 14:41:30 <quantumsummers>	it is not cheap, but I think we would get a lot out of it
Nov 17 14:41:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Why the gender discrimination ?
Nov 17 14:41:51 <quantumsummers>	there is some funds matching, and I am more than happy to run a specific fundraiser for this
Nov 17 14:42:14 <quantumsummers>	NeddySeagoon: I assume that is meant to be funny, but in FOSS we have <4% women
Nov 17 14:42:26 <quantumsummers>	in proprietary sw there is 18%
Nov 17 14:42:43 <quantumsummers>	http://gnome.org/opw/
Nov 17 14:42:55 <quantumsummers>	it is not just code, can be lots of things
Nov 17 14:43:05 <quantumsummers>	PR, writing, code, design, marketing, etc
Nov 17 14:43:30 <quantumsummers>	last I checked gentoo is less than 1% women devs so we are not doing too well there
Nov 17 14:43:41 <quantumsummers>	might be 0% now
Nov 17 14:44:04 <quantumsummers>	I plan to write up a proper proposal for this, but please take a look and consider it
Nov 17 14:44:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Not really.  I'm old enough to remember 'bussing' in the South of the USA and all the positive discrimination that grew out of it. 
Nov 17 14:44:34 <quantumsummers>	I am not sure what positive discrimination you could mean, affirmative action?
Nov 17 14:45:02 <quantumsummers>	at any rate, it is for women and those that identify as women
Nov 17 14:45:21 <quantumsummers>	no age limit either, so not necessarily students
Nov 17 14:45:28 <dabbott>	wormo is the only woman dev afaik and she has not been able to be very active
Nov 17 14:45:34 <quantumsummers>	right
Nov 17 14:45:38 <robbat2>	quantumsummers, it's non-zero, but not by far
Nov 17 14:45:49 <robbat2>	there are more than wormo
Nov 17 14:45:50 <quantumsummers>	robbat2: indeed, I thought wormo retired
Nov 17 14:46:02 <quantumsummers>	well, all the more reason
Nov 17 14:46:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats another way to put it.  In the UK at least, things went too far ...  I'wm concerned that this might be another instance of that, in years to come
Nov 17 14:47:02 <dabbott>	we can discuss over email
Nov 17 14:48:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Its not an issues right now ... the problem comes when its served its usefulness
Nov 17 14:48:34 <quantumsummers>	this is a year by year thing, so we are not obligated to much
Nov 17 14:48:47 <quantumsummers>	anyway, I can't see anything but positive points now
Nov 17 14:48:55 <quantumsummers>	happy to be informed
Nov 17 14:48:58 <quantumsummers>	email it is
Nov 17 14:49:07 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm fine with it on a year by year basisi
Nov 17 14:49:18 <quantumsummers>	great
Nov 17 14:49:33 <quantumsummers>	that is the way we would handle it, year by year
Nov 17 14:49:35 *	quantumsummers is done now for real this time :)
Nov 17 14:49:40 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 15 Dec 2013 19:00 UTC
Nov 17 14:49:52 <dabbott>	ok here
Nov 17 14:49:57 <SwifT>	ok
Nov 17 14:50:05 <robbat2>	i fixed that copyright bug now
Nov 17 14:50:15 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks robbat2 
Nov 17 14:50:32 <Betelgeuse>	thanks 
Nov 17 14:50:33 <robbat2>	the frontpage is cached btw, so you won't see it right away
Nov 17 14:50:33 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: I can post the logs and minutes
Nov 17 14:50:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, quantumsummers ^^
Nov 17 14:50:56 <quantumsummers>	date works for me
Nov 17 14:51:08 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
Nov 17 14:51:20 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor ...
Nov 17 14:51:28 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: ok
Nov 17 14:52:07 *	NeddySeagoon is still learning dvorak-uk
Nov 17 14:52:46 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
