Dec 15 14:00:08 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call
Dec 15 14:00:34 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, SwifT quantumsummers|c 
Dec 15 14:00:36 <dabbott>	I'm logging too, present
Dec 15 14:00:50 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, said he may not make it
Dec 15 14:00:51 <SwifT>	make it just in time
Dec 15 14:00:52 <quantumsummers|c>	hello
Dec 15 14:00:52 <dabbott>	SwifT: said he is on the road
Dec 15 14:01:01 <SwifT>	just have to take my coat off
Dec 15 14:01:09 <dabbott>	sorry SwifT hello :)
Dec 15 14:01:13 <SwifT>	np
Dec 15 14:01:23 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum - lets start
Dec 15 14:01:24 <SwifT>	and I still drove within the limits :p
Dec 15 14:01:30 *	quantumsummers|c may have to run off to manage kids from time to time
Dec 15 14:02:00 <dabbott>	hi quantumsummers|c Betelgeuse o/
Dec 15 14:02:14 <NeddySeagoon>	Foundation Activity Tracker - looks like everything is up to date
Dec 15 14:02:48 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Quarterly Financial Statements ...
Dec 15 14:03:17 <dabbott>	I put together that wiki page for review, is this what we want to do?
Dec 15 14:03:41 <dabbott>	if it is just need the numbers to proceed
Dec 15 14:03:57 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, looks good to me.  Do yo intend to bigrate the history?
Dec 15 14:04:07 <quantumsummers|c>	working on packaging them now dabbott
Dec 15 14:04:09 <NeddySeagoon>	migrate*
Dec 15 14:04:09 <dabbott>	yes
Dec 15 14:04:27 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: sounds good :)
Dec 15 14:05:09 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, your turn ...  Treasurer Report  (I missed that)
Dec 15 14:06:47 *	SwifT guesses one of his kids ran off ;)
Dec 15 14:07:24 <dol-sen>	if he says we have $15M, I change my mind about that desk ;)
Dec 15 14:07:26 <NeddySeagoon>	looks lke quantumsummers|c is rounding up children ... Swift your turn Gentoo Trademark License Agreement
Dec 15 14:07:33 <quantumsummers|c>	well we dont have that 
Dec 15 14:07:46 <SwifT>	quantumsummers|c: the floor is yours
Dec 15 14:08:23 <quantumsummers|c>	gonna have to come back .. runs
Dec 15 14:08:34 <SwifT>	ok, i'll do a bit on the trademark license then 
Dec 15 14:08:45 <SwifT>	I wrote up a new text based on the django one and sent it to you guys
Dec 15 14:08:46 <NeddySeagoon>	hes outnumbered  :)
Dec 15 14:09:01 <SwifT>	i have a few things I'm not certain about, mentioned as notes in the document
Dec 15 14:09:35 <SwifT>	the most important one is to know if the new license has at least the same things are the current one
Dec 15 14:10:02 <SwifT>	if it does, then there is no issue with people/orgnizations that based the name/logo usage on the previous (well, current ;-) license
Dec 15 14:10:03 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, I only have some trivia ... but I'm nervous about the council representing Gentoo
Dec 15 14:10:28 <SwifT>	I could drop that part; Django had something like that so I just copied ;)
Dec 15 14:11:13 <NeddySeagoon>	We can say that existing licenced activities are not affcted
Dec 15 14:11:57 <SwifT>	so keep the current one (albeit with a marking that it is no longer applicable to new applications) and refer to it for the previous applications (that predate the new license)
Dec 15 14:12:28 <SwifT>	should we incorporate some timing in the license? Like ask applicants to check on a yearly basis if there are updates to it?
Dec 15 14:12:30 <NeddySeagoon>	It saves having to validate that old and new are compatible
Dec 15 14:13:56 <SwifT>	a second question I have is if we should discuss the license on -nfp or -project before going live?
Dec 15 14:14:19 <NeddySeagoon>	That souns overy onourous - wolud we really expect licencees to change?  Users should consult the licence at each use
Dec 15 14:15:11 <SwifT>	it would help us that we don't need to keep older licenses at hand for eternity
Dec 15 14:15:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Discuss on -nfp and post an announce on -project
Dec 15 14:16:02 <NeddySeagoon>	Are we really going to say "you can't do that any more" ?
Dec 15 14:16:08 <SwifT>	most licenses are time-bound, but that is not that common in the free software world (more in propriatary one)
Dec 15 14:16:28 <NeddySeagoon>	How oten is the licence likely to change?
Dec 15 14:16:34 <SwifT>	it's more to handle misinterpretations better
Dec 15 14:16:45 <NeddySeagoon>	agreed
Dec 15 14:16:46 <SwifT>	at the pace we do it, it'll be somewhere in 2038 when Unix time changes ;)
Dec 15 14:17:12 <SwifT>	otoh, we do already have an "interpretation" clause in it 
Dec 15 14:17:23 <SwifT>	"The Gentoo Foundation reserves the right to determine if a usage of the Gentoo trademark meets the requirements and standards of this license. "
Dec 15 14:17:51 <NeddySeagoon>	If it came to the "you can't do that any more" we would probably offer an exception anyway, which is just another licence
Dec 15 14:18:02 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Dec 15 14:18:29 <SwifT>	so, to deal with the few notes I had:
Dec 15 14:18:44 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Betelgeuse your thoughts ?
Dec 15 14:18:51 <SwifT>	(1.) Gentoo-related software projects: does this apply to us?
Dec 15 14:19:03 <SwifT>	 You may use the Gentoo name in the form "Gentoo-foo" or "foo-Gentoo" in any software project that can be used to augment or extend the capabilities of official Gentoo project software, provided that:
Dec 15 14:19:06 <dabbott>	looks fine to me
Dec 15 14:19:07 <SwifT>	    The project is distributed under the terms of an OSI-approved open source license;
Dec 15 14:19:10 <SwifT>	    The website for the project does not imply that it is official or otherwise endorsed by the Gentoo Foundation, or by the Gentoo Council as representatives of the Gentoo project.
Dec 15 14:19:24 <SwifT>	no objections to keep it in?
Dec 15 14:20:07 <NeddySeagoon>	or by the Gentoo Council as representatives of the Gentoo project.  is not good as the council has no legal stats
Dec 15 14:20:12 <NeddySeagoon>	status.
Dec 15 14:20:23 <SwifT>	yes, i'll drop the references to the council in the document
Dec 15 14:20:32 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Dec 15 14:20:36 <SwifT>	(2.) Other commercial activity:  You may not use the Gentoo name in the registered name of any company that offers Gentoo project related services.
Dec 15 14:20:39 <SwifT>	You may not incorporate the Gentoo name or logo into the name of any product to be sold by a commercial entity when that product or entity is Gentoo project related. 
Dec 15 14:21:13 <SwifT>	ok to keep that in?
Dec 15 14:21:33 <NeddySeagoon>	The Gentoo Foundation  is properly called The Gentoo Foundation Inc.  
Dec 15 14:21:49 <NeddySeagoon>	wfm
Dec 15 14:21:49 <SwifT>	ok, will  add the "Inc" part to it
Dec 15 14:22:00 <SwifT>	is it "The Gentoo Foundation Inc." or "The Gentoo Foundation, Inc." ?
Dec 15 14:22:13 <NeddySeagoon>	the former
Dec 15 14:22:44 <SwifT>	ok
Dec 15 14:23:26 <dabbott>	yep GENTOO FOUNDATION, INC thats in NM
Dec 15 14:23:57 <dabbott>	https://portal.sos.state.nm.us/corps/Corplookup/Lookdn.aspx
Dec 15 14:23:58 <NeddySeagoon>	I did not do a proper compare with the old terms of use, but I did not see any clashes
Dec 15 14:24:02 <SwifT>	ok then, i'll update the document and first send it to trustees@gentoo.org and after a few days, if there are no further remarks, see if the community has any feedback on the gentoo-nfp@g.o mailinglist. 
Dec 15 14:24:09 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: can we get a link to your draft for the logs
Dec 15 14:24:16 <SwifT>	sure: http://dev.gentoo.org/~swift/tmp/gentoo-trademark.xml
Dec 15 14:24:52 <SwifT>	after gentoo-nfp discussion we'll see by mail if we can move it to the site immediately, or if it needs another discussion on IRC, k?
Dec 15 14:25:10 <SwifT>	dabbott: do hey always shout there? ;)
Dec 15 14:25:12 <dabbott>	sounds good thanks SwifT 
Dec 15 14:25:28 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Dec 15 14:25:33 <NeddySeagoon>	As quantumsummers|c is still MIA, lets move onto bugs
Dec 15 14:25:34 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: sounds like a good plan
Dec 15 14:25:59 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: when posting to the ml, let's list clearly the motivation too
Dec 15 14:26:17 <NeddySeagoon>	https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=492386
Dec 15 14:26:28 <SwifT>	Betelgeuse: k, i'll send it to trustees@g.o to make sure I have it in ;)
Dec 15 14:26:36 <NeddySeagoon>	bug 492386
Dec 15 14:26:37 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/492386 "Fund the setup of an opensource chocolate to use at conventions"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; dabbott:trustees
Dec 15 14:27:12 <NeddySeagoon>	I vote No - its not a good use of funds
Dec 15 14:27:16 <SwifT>	i don't think chocolate is a good PR investment for us
Dec 15 14:27:30 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Betelgeuse 
Dec 15 14:27:31 <dabbott>	I vote no, stickers, dvd's, t-shirts even but no to food
Dec 15 14:28:07 <dabbott>	I would go for funding a dinner
Dec 15 14:28:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats 3 Nos ... Betelgeuse quantumsummers|c ?
Dec 15 14:28:26 <Betelgeuse>	Thought that doesn't seem to be directly the chocolate
Dec 15 14:29:32 <NeddySeagoon>	I've lost a bug ...
Dec 15 14:29:47 <Betelgeuse>	well directly as in directly buying chocolate
Dec 15 14:30:24 <Betelgeuse>	I vote yes and let's move on
Dec 15 14:30:34 <Betelgeuse>	(it could be an ok item for our web shop etc.)
Dec 15 14:30:43 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: I closed the bug for dolsen it here https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=493344
Dec 15 14:30:47 <Betelgeuse>	buying the produced chocolate for FOSDEM probably not
Dec 15 14:31:20 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
Dec 15 14:32:00 <NeddySeagoon>	Bug 492384
Dec 15 14:32:01 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/492384 "Update the process to request funds from the foundation"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; CONF; dabbott:trustees
Dec 15 14:32:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need any changes ?  the process seems to work well
Dec 15 14:33:27 <NeddySeagoon>	The idea ot the process is to gather all the information
Dec 15 14:34:25 <SwifT>	we do need to add in how to proceed, like David sais in the bug
Dec 15 14:34:42 <dabbott>	I think I just need to add where to send the request and submit a bug for the request
Dec 15 14:34:43 <SwifT>	if we work with a bugreport, there is traceability
Dec 15 14:35:26 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, lets make it a bug
Dec 15 14:35:31 <SwifT>	i don't know if there are reasons to make a bug private?
Dec 15 14:35:33 <SwifT>	sec, fire alarm
Dec 15 14:35:55 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: I hope infra archives trustees like it does for many aliases
Dec 15 14:36:03 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, yes.  Personal information
Dec 15 14:36:19 <Betelgeuse>	still bugzilla is beneficial for future trustees
Dec 15 14:36:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, it does
Dec 15 14:36:22 <Betelgeuse>	so they can search back
Dec 15 14:37:45 *	NeddySeagoon posts SwifTs mobile number in a public bug  :) 
Dec 15 14:38:17 <dabbott>	I was going to add to the document, send the request to trustees@gentoo and then we can make the bug
Dec 15 14:38:38 <NeddySeagoon>	yes, that works
Dec 15 14:38:53 <dabbott>	we don't have to require them to do the bug also
Dec 15 14:39:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Bug 477374   Is this closed now?
Dec 15 14:39:09 <dabbott>	they just need to attach the form to the email
Dec 15 14:39:32 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I like that workflow
Dec 15 14:40:03 <dabbott>	ok will do
Dec 15 14:40:11 <SwifT>	'ts ok, dead battery
Dec 15 14:40:47 <NeddySeagoon>	Bug 477374   Is this closed now?
Dec 15 14:40:52 <SwifT>	dabbott: ok, agree (mail to trustees and we make bug)
Dec 15 14:41:05 <Betelgeuse>	sounds good
Dec 15 14:41:23 <SwifT>	I don't have access to bug 477374
Dec 15 14:42:44 <dabbott>	robbat2: was working on it afaik
Dec 15 14:43:11 <dabbott>	SwifT: Its a bug for a sponsors logo change
Dec 15 14:43:15 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, you are on the cc: list now
Dec 15 14:43:32 <SwifT>	thx
Dec 15 14:44:12 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: we should cc infra maybe robbat2 is not on the trustee alias anymore
Dec 15 14:44:16 <NeddySeagoon>	ok, lets leave it.  Thats all the current bugs, unless anyone else has some ?
Dec 15 14:44:32 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, true
Dec 15 14:44:55 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: I got the impression that he would be based on him answering a thread
Dec 15 14:45:05 <Betelgeuse>	still we should probably think who should remain now
Dec 15 14:45:36 <NeddySeagoon>	-infra or robbat2 ?
Dec 15 14:45:53 <dabbott>	-infra
Dec 15 14:46:45 <SwifT>	what donation did ostc give? It's not mentioned on the sponsors page 
Dec 15 14:47:44 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, need quantumsummers|c for that probably
Dec 15 14:47:51 <SwifT>	ah it was financial
Dec 15 14:48:10 <NeddySeagoon>	New Business
Dec 15 14:48:30 <NeddySeagoon>	Bug 493344  is closed
Dec 15 14:48:33 <willikins>	NeddySeagoon: https://bugs.gentoo.org/493344 "Standing Desk for Brian Dolbec (aka dol-sen)"; Gentoo Foundation, Proposals; RESO, WORK; dabbott:trustees
Dec 15 14:48:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup
Dec 15 14:48:53 <dabbott>	dol-sen: any comments?
Dec 15 14:49:28 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: I can do the logs and minutes
Dec 15 14:49:35 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 19 Jan 2013 19:00 UTC
Dec 15 14:49:44 <dabbott>	fine here
Dec 15 14:49:52 <Betelgeuse>	ok
Dec 15 14:49:56 <SwifT>	ok
Dec 15 14:50:14 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c ?
Dec 15 14:50:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ...
Dec 15 14:50:46 <dabbott>	none here
Dec 15 14:50:52 <NeddySeagoon>	None from me
Dec 15 14:50:57 <SwifT>	nope, none from me either
Dec 15 14:51:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ?
Dec 15 14:51:10 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: no
Dec 15 14:51:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Who will post the log? Minutes? dabbott has volenteered
Dec 15 14:51:42 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott wfm
Dec 15 14:51:46 <Betelgeuse>	kudos!
Dec 15 14:51:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Open Floor ...
Dec 15 14:52:02 <dabbott>	yep I got it :) I do both at the same time
Dec 15 14:52:57 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
