20:00 <@rich0> NeddySeagoon: FYI, I'll end up having to go mobile in about 20 min - suggest we cover copyrights early and for the activity tracker I don't believe there is anything new, but I'll take any requests for updated via email.
20:00  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to open the March 17, 2013 Gentoo Foundation Inc., Trustees Meeting 
20:01 <@quantumsummers> hello
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> I'm logging
20:01 <@dabbott> hi everyone
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> hi quantumsummers  ... roll call
20:01 <@rich0> here
20:01 <@dabbott> here
20:01 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, ?
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> we have a quorum -lets start
20:02 <@NeddySeagoon> Copyright Policies ..  rich0 ?
20:02 <@rich0> Well, sounds like there aren't any complaints with the proposal - next step is to create an actual policy.
20:03 <@rich0> I'd like to suggest making DCO signoff on each commit optional until we're on git.
20:03 <@rich0> That is, unless somebody comes up with a proposal for how to do it without much overhead.
20:03 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0 I don't have a problem with small steps ... anything has to be an improvement
20:04 <@rich0> Otherwise we can start circulating wording - style should be less explanatory and more actionable than previous communications.
20:04 <@robbat2> hi
20:04 <@robbat2> sorry a few mins late
20:04 <@rich0> ie, when doing commits do a,b,c
20:04 <@robbat2> doing it without overhead: repoman
20:04 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, will you draft something, since you seem to be running with this so far ?
20:04 <@rich0> Sure, happy to draft something.
20:04 <@rich0> robbat2: we can chat offline about that if you want.  I'm fine with it as long as it doesn't create stress for devs.
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, its got to be visible to the commiter - every time
20:05 <@rich0> If it just gets auto-added to commit messages with some kind of confirmation that the dev is Ok with it that is fine by me.
20:05 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, ++
20:05 <@rich0> I just don't want to end up having a strict format on commit messages and repoman yells at you if it isn't there.  git -s makes it easy
20:05 <@robbat2> ok, we can discuss that w/ zmedico re implementation then
20:05 <@rich0> agreed
20:06 <@rich0> Oh, what level of legal counsel do we want on this, if any?
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> any more on copyright ?
20:06 <@rich0> We'll have an FLA, a DCO, and a policy statement.
20:06 <@quantumsummers> +1 for me
20:06 <@rich0> I'll prioritize the last two.
20:06 <@NeddySeagoon> we want to run it by legal before it becomes policy but after its been on -nfp
20:06 <@rich0> WFM
20:07 <@dabbott> +1
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> any more on copyright ?
20:07 <@rich0> nothing here
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Financial | Legal Status 
20:07 <@NeddySeagoon> Certified Public Accountant
20:08 <@quantumsummers> nothing terribly interesting. Getting a head start on our filings. Need to push some files to our repo, will try to get to that this afternoon.
20:08 <@NeddySeagoon> sounds pretty boring :(
20:08 <@quantumsummers> I also need to order some checks (cheques)
20:09 <@quantumsummers> will do that on Monday
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> 501(c)(3) registration status
20:09 <@quantumsummers> I think I will get the sort that have stubs
20:09 <@quantumsummers> no change in status
20:09 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, has already said no change to the Foundation Activity Tracker
20:10 <@NeddySeagoon> 4. Bugs
20:10 <@rich0> Yup, send any update requests to me offline
20:11 <@rich0> NeddySeagoon: if we ever get anything more actionable on that possible license violation email I suggest we log that as a bug, but I don't think we have enough to do anything with that yet.
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> agreed
20:11 <@rich0> Should be a private bug though - sensitive issue.
20:11 <@NeddySeagoon> yep.  Its NEEDINFO right now
20:11 <@rich0> (FYI - for the record - Gentoo hasn't been accused of any license violations.)
20:12 <@rich0> Just don't want any libel.
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> do we need to go through the bug list?  
20:12 <@NeddySeagoon> only 445584 is new
20:12 <@dabbott> i don't see anything
20:13 <@robbat2> bug 445584 looks more like it's pending on IEEE
20:13 < willikins> robbat2: https://bugs.gentoo.org/445584 "sys-apps/hwids: {iab,oui}.txt isn't "freely distributable""; Gentoo Linux, Ebuilds; CONF; ulm:flameeyes
20:13 <@rich0> I don't think 445584 has anything actionable on our part there - no risk to Gentoo that I see.
20:13 <@NeddySeagoon> do we need to keep an eye on it ?
20:14 <@robbat2> nope, i think drop trustees from it
20:14 <@robbat2> comment 5 said RedHat was contacting IEEE
20:14 <@robbat2> ulm wanted to know if it could be public-domain meanwhile
20:14 <@rich0> works for me - in general I don't see the need for us to follow every licensing issue unless the licensing team or somebody else asks us to.
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> agreed
20:15 <@rich0> (ie, we should be an escalation point, not a starting point)
20:15 <@robbat2> ok, i'll send it back to licenses@ and let it be public-domain for now
20:15 <@NeddySeagoon> ok
20:15 <@rich0> Sounds good - the main time I'd want the trustees closely involved is if we got some kind of notice of violation from a 3rd party, etc.  That means legal risk/etc and we need to show due diligence.
20:16 <@rich0> Licensing team does a good job.
20:16 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
20:16 <@dabbott> yep
20:16 <@rich0> Question - all those GSCO invoices - anything going on there.?
20:16 <@rich0> err, GSOC
20:16 <@rich0> No need to rehash, it just seems like those have been open for ages and I'm not sure how much if any money is still floating out there waiting for us to ask for it.
20:17 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, ^^^
20:17 <@quantumsummers> reordering checks and I will close it out
20:17 <@quantumsummers> or do you mean the google invoices
20:18 <@quantumsummers> I have them all up to date
20:18 <@quantumsummers> we can keep that bug around or close it now and open it when we need it again, doesnt matter
20:18 <@rich0> I'd close it and open a new one each year.
20:18 <@quantumsummers> could just forget the bug and put the files in a repo too
20:18 <@rich0> It seems like it needs action if it is open.
20:18 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, thats cleaner
20:18 <@quantumsummers> I like having them all in one bug
20:19 <@quantumsummers> but will defer, no biggie
20:19 <@rich0> Oh, and for historical record, by all means stick them in the repo.  I'd like to see stuff going there from the start in the future - less bus factor.
20:19 <@quantumsummers> will put this in a repo anyway
20:19 <@quantumsummers> yessir
20:19 <@rich0> If you really want to re-open and re-summary it annually it isn't a big deal, but I don't like open bugs that aren't really open.
20:19 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:19 <@quantumsummers> that one can be closed then
20:20 <@quantumsummers> also FTR we have been paid in fill
20:20 <@quantumsummers> **full
20:20 <@quantumsummers> for all years
20:20 <@rich0> Excellent!
20:20 -!- jmbsvicetto [~jmbsvicet@gentoo/developer/jmbsvicetto] has quit [Quit: leaving]
20:20 <@robbat2> nice
20:21 <@quantumsummers> nice it is
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> That brings us to Cleanup
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> Date of Next Meeting - 21 Apr 2013 19:00 UTC
20:21 <@quantumsummers> wtf
20:21 <@quantumsummers> mem
20:21 <@NeddySeagoon> works for me
20:21 <@quantumsummers> WFM!
20:21 <@rich0> wfm
20:21 <@robbat2> checking cal
20:22 <@dabbott> fine here
20:22 <@quantumsummers> (must be typing wtf a lot these days)
20:22 <@robbat2> no conflicts on my cal
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> Any other business ... 
20:22 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: how we doing on infra needs? (ssl, servers, gear, etc, etc)
20:22 <@NeddySeagoon> rich0, ^^
20:22 <@robbat2> ssl, I need to put together my plans into a bug w/ a funding request
20:23 <@quantumsummers> ok
20:23 <@robbat2> server-wise, we're mostly happy for the moment, we've been decommisioning some of the oldest boxes that were underutillized and very aging
20:23 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: good
20:23 <@quantumsummers> @trustees
20:23 <@robbat2> sparrow.g.o is the most recent retirement, a few days short of 8 years of active gentoo services
20:23 <@quantumsummers> wow, fine machine that one
20:24 <@quantumsummers> OSUOSL has privately asked us (via me) if we can foot some of our bill
20:24 <@quantumsummers> Lance said he would send me a proposal, but that was 4 weeks back
20:24 <@quantumsummers> sounded like ~500 USD/month
20:24 <@rich0> I need to go mobile - don't wait for me if you don't need me on a vote, but I will try to monitor what remains of the meeting...
20:24 <@quantumsummers> they have run into budget issues or something
20:25 <@robbat2> is that paying for electrical, bandwidth, or manpower?
20:25 <@quantumsummers> anyway, from my end, it looks like we could easily do that as long as it was not a long term proposition
20:25 <@NeddySeagoon> lets wait until we see the proposal ...
20:25 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: electrical and bandwidth
20:25 <@quantumsummers> mainly electrical iirc
20:25 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: surely, but I wanted to give a heads up to expect something in the ballpark
20:26 <@quantumsummers> we are not obligated, but it would be a good idea to help them out if we can
20:26 <@quantumsummers> since we depend so heavily
20:26 <@robbat2> if electrical, we can probably do better by updating some of hardware, to use less power
20:26 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, that sounds like its more than our regular monthly income ...
20:26 <@quantumsummers> robbat2: couldn't hurt
20:26 <@quantumsummers> NeddySeagoon: we are averaging ~1000 iirc
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I'll run the new numbers soon, so I'll have a better idea
20:27 <@robbat2> is that with the GSOC averaged?
20:27 <@quantumsummers> no
20:27 <@NeddySeagoon> quantumsummers, Ah, ok. $500/month won't be too painful then
20:27 <@quantumsummers> I do not count gsoc in, just paypal
20:27 <@robbat2> ok, that's not too bad then
20:27 <@robbat2> i thought we were way less
20:27 <@quantumsummers> right, and if we do say a year
20:27 <@quantumsummers> it will ahve little impact on our total deposits
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> I with robbat2 for updating hardware to reduce operating costs on power
20:28 <@quantumsummers> sure. we should do that regardless
20:28 <@quantumsummers> just to keep things sane
20:28 <@NeddySeagoon> yep
20:28 <@quantumsummers> I enabled the conservative governor on my servers and am saving ~$50 a month
20:28 <@quantumsummers> about 1/3 in savings
20:29 <@NeddySeagoon> Thats impressive.
20:29 <@quantumsummers> I don't have a lot of load currently
20:29 <@quantumsummers> should just turn off a bunch of cores really
20:29 <@robbat2> on the $work sides, we've gained 6A by moving from older 75% efficency PSUs to 92%+ ones
20:29 <@robbat2> *efficiency
20:29 <@quantumsummers> nice
20:30 <@quantumsummers> also electrical is really expensive in my colo
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> I moved 4 boxes into KVMs and saved ?40/month ... which pays for the hardware over a year
20:30 <@robbat2> yup
20:30 <@quantumsummers> that covers my AoB
20:30 <@NeddySeagoon> dabbott, AoB ?
20:31 <@dabbott> none here :)
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, AoB ?
20:31 <@robbat2> i said mine already re ssl
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> :)
20:31 <@NeddySeagoon> I have one 
20:32 <@NeddySeagoon> We briefly discussed a permanent link in exchange for a small one time payment - I don't see how we can make that work, so I suggest not doing it
20:32 <@quantumsummers> +1
20:33 <@quantumsummers> we are not a link farm
20:33 <@dabbott> +1
20:33 <@robbat2> one of the other OSS teams I do also had this discussion recently, they decided to strictly keep it tied to time limits
20:33 <@robbat2> and charge a lot more for their links
20:33 <@robbat2> like $200/mo for the top ones
20:33 <@quantumsummers> robbat2:  we could, in theory, build this sort of thing into the sidebar app
20:34 <@quantumsummers> with time limits
20:34 <@robbat2> yep
20:34 <@NeddySeagoon> That might work.  We have never been offered that - its simpler not to do it at all
20:34 <@robbat2> that's what it was built for
20:34 <@robbat2> NeddySeagoon, that more closely models our hardware sponsors
20:34 <@quantumsummers> yes, (not considering the time bit, but no biggie there)
20:35 <@quantumsummers> if we did this, it would be considered unrelated income, which will be interesting to the cpa. easily dealt with though
20:35 <@NeddySeagoon> robbat2, well, if we can factor appearances so the values to gentoo match
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> Lets toke it off line on the alias
20:36 <@quantumsummers> also, we dont really need that income so much, but it could help with osuosl support and so forth
20:36 <@robbat2> anyway, that is if we did go with the need for income
20:36 <@quantumsummers> toke it NeddySeagoon?
20:36 <@quantumsummers> ;)
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> take*
20:36 <@quantumsummers> hippy
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> hehe
20:36 <@NeddySeagoon> I'll post logs - there are no emails nor motions
20:37  * quantumsummers straightens his tie
20:37 <@quantumsummers> ok thanks NeddySeagoon
20:37 <@NeddySeagoon> Open Floor ...
20:37 <@dabbott> thanks NeddySeagoon 
20:38  * NeddySeagoon bangs the gale to close the meeting
