Oct 20 15:02:24 <NeddySeagoon>	roll call
Oct 20 15:02:28 <dabbott>	here
Oct 20 15:02:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, quantumsummers|c SwifT 
Oct 20 15:02:57 <Betelgeuse>	here
Oct 20 15:03:18 <SwifT>	here
Oct 20 15:03:20 <NeddySeagoon>	My logger is here
Oct 20 15:03:36 <dabbott>	me also
Oct 20 15:03:59 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum ... lets start
Oct 20 15:04:23 <NeddySeagoon>	Annual Report NM DUE Oct/Nov  
Oct 20 15:04:43 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, is that yours ?
Oct 20 15:04:53 <dabbott>	we can efile i sent the info to quantumsummers|c so he can login and pay
Oct 20 15:05:16 <dabbott>	if nothing happens by the first I will do it
Oct 20 15:05:51 <NeddySeagoon>	ok - the action is with quantumsummers|c 
Oct 20 15:06:19 <dabbott>	I think it is better to pay from the gentoo account not my personal
Oct 20 15:06:29 <NeddySeagoon>	Treasurer Report -> quantumsummers|c again  ?
Oct 20 15:06:45 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, agreed
Oct 20 15:07:37 <NeddySeagoon>	Foundation Activity Tracker  only te report due ?
Oct 20 15:08:17 <dabbott>	yep
Oct 20 15:09:07 <NeddySeagoon>	the financial stuff needs quantumsummers|c 
Oct 20 15:09:34 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 4 bugs
Oct 20 15:11:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Are there any pressing items ?
Oct 20 15:12:19 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, Betelgeuse dabbott ^^
Oct 20 15:12:25 <SwifT>	no, nothing that I see
Oct 20 15:12:40 <SwifT>	the Steven bug (cfr also emails) can be closed afaik
Oct 20 15:12:48 <dabbott>	yes
Oct 20 15:12:51 <SwifT>	he was accepted in in the previous meeting
Oct 20 15:12:51 <NeddySeagoon>	agreed
Oct 20 15:13:34 <NeddySeagoon>	care to update te bug ?
Oct 20 15:13:47 <dabbott>	Morphodo may be done, Robin was handling it afaik
Oct 20 15:14:18 <SwifT>	sure, I'll close and welcome Steven in the bug
Oct 20 15:14:22 <dabbott>	LeaseWeb is done I can close it
Oct 20 15:14:48 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
Oct 20 15:15:08 <NeddySeagoon>	5. New Business - None
Oct 20 15:15:25 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup
Oct 20 15:15:36 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 17 Nov 2013 19:00 UTC
Oct 20 15:15:40 <NeddySeagoon>	wfm
Oct 20 15:15:46 <dabbott>	Fine here
Oct 20 15:15:51 <SwifT>	yup
Oct 20 15:16:03 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ?
Oct 20 15:16:26 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: just a minute
Oct 20 15:16:28 <Betelgeuse>	need to find my phone
Oct 20 15:16:38 <NeddySeagoon>	ok
Oct 20 15:17:42 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: time ok
Oct 20 15:17:57 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ...
Oct 20 15:18:08 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, ?
Oct 20 15:18:34 <SwifT>	one thing
Oct 20 15:18:57 <SwifT>	I got feedback frmo the Django folks that they opened up their trademark text so we can easily base ours on it
Oct 20 15:19:07 <SwifT>	(regarding the usage guidelines of the Gento name and logo)
Oct 20 15:19:24 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats usefull  :)
Oct 20 15:19:32 <dabbott>	thanks :)
Oct 20 15:19:33 <SwifT>	quantumsummers|c mentioned that license texts cannot be copyrighted, so it might not matter even, but I couldn't find a good resource on that, so better safe than sorry ;)
Oct 20 15:19:50 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Oct 20 15:19:55 <SwifT>	i'll draft up a gentoo text based on the django text so we can discuss that in the next meeting
Oct 20 15:20:02 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: probably such a rule wouldn't be global any way
Oct 20 15:20:04 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, aob ?
Oct 20 15:20:12 <dabbott>	no
Oct 20 15:20:45 <dabbott>	I emaile quantumsummers|c I thunk he is at the Google summit
Oct 20 15:20:49 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, true bu we are a OSA entity
Oct 20 15:20:59 <NeddySeagoon>	USA*
Oct 20 15:21:25 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, aob ?
Oct 20 15:21:31 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: in this case it would matter who contributed to the django text etc
Oct 20 15:21:52 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: no
Oct 20 15:22:08 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: no new members etc?
Oct 20 15:22:37 <Betelgeuse>	Guess I would have seen the emails on the alias
Oct 20 15:23:03 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: Let's just mark for next meeting to check how big of a percentage of new devs apply to join
Oct 20 15:23:06 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, that could affect copyright but not licence
Oct 20 15:23:09 <Betelgeuse>	I can check some numbers
Oct 20 15:23:31 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, ok
Oct 20 15:23:48 <NeddySeagoon>	I have one item
Oct 20 15:24:19 <NeddySeagoon>	Sopt logs seem to be missing
Oct 20 15:24:31 <NeddySeagoon>	Sept*
Oct 20 15:25:19 <dabbott>	I must of forgot I will fix
Oct 20 15:25:22 <NeddySeagoon>	can someone post them please ?
Oct 20 15:26:21 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: ^^
Oct 20 15:26:22 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, you want to do todayo log too ?
Oct 20 15:26:56 <dabbott>	yes I can do the log and todays also at the same time
Oct 20 15:27:09 <NeddySeagoon>	lastly, Open Floor
Oct 20 15:27:18 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, thanks
Oct 20 15:27:45 <dilfridge>	err
Oct 20 15:27:50 <dilfridge>	may I?
Oct 20 15:28:29 <dabbott>	dilfridge: go ahead
Oct 20 15:28:40 <NeddySeagoon>	dilfridge, ?
Oct 20 15:28:52 <dilfridge>	just for your information, since I consider trustees to be one of the groups intrinsically entitled, 
Oct 20 15:29:11 <dilfridge>	if any of you wants to have admin permissions for the facebook page, just message me.
Oct 20 15:29:21 <dilfridge>	that's all.
Oct 20 15:29:40 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks dilfridge
Oct 20 15:29:47 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
Oct 20 15:30:06 <NeddySeagoon>	thank you team
