
Jul 21 15:05:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Roll call ... my logger is here
Jul 21 15:05:57 <rich0>	here
Jul 21 15:06:13 <dabbott>	present && i am logging and will post
Jul 21 15:06:25 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, _robbat21irssi 
Jul 21 15:06:40 <_robbat21irssi>	present
Jul 21 15:07:03 <NeddySeagoon>	We have a quorum ... not including rich0 
Jul 21 15:07:05 <quantumsummers|c>	hello
Jul 21 15:07:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Hi quantumsummers|c 
Jul 21 15:07:22 <dabbott>	hi quantumsummers|c rich0 
Jul 21 15:07:26 <quantumsummers|c>	howdy
Jul 21 15:07:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 1.   rich0s planned withdrawal from being a trustee, now he is elected to council 
Jul 21 15:08:27 <NeddySeagoon>	Discussion on the list was to offer rich0 the office of assistant secretary until the AGM
Jul 21 15:08:29 <rich0>	I'm fine with accepting the asst secretary position in the interim.  Let's re-eval after the new board forms.
Jul 21 15:09:02 <quantumsummers|c>	+1
Jul 21 15:09:04 <dabbott>	rich0: I really liked the way you kept us informed by the activity tracker
Jul 21 15:09:19 <NeddySeagoon>	I would like to extend the term to 15 Sep.  Its a bit unfiar on the new board to need to decide  at the AGM
Jul 21 15:09:33 <quantumsummers|c>	+1
Jul 21 15:09:41 <dabbott>	+1
Jul 21 15:09:43 <rich0>	sure
Jul 21 15:10:32 <NeddySeagoon>	#Motion to appoint rich0 to the office of Asst Sec until 15 Sep 2013.  Position to be reconsided at that date
Jul 21 15:10:39 <quantumsummers|c>	seconded
Jul 21 15:10:46 <NeddySeagoon>	vote please
Jul 21 15:10:48 <dabbott>	aye
Jul 21 15:10:49 <quantumsummers|c>	aye
Jul 21 15:10:49 <_robbat21irssi>	aye
Jul 21 15:10:52 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Jul 21 15:10:57 <NeddySeagoon>	carried
Jul 21 15:11:15 <rich0>	thanks  :)  I think...
Jul 21 15:11:45 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, should stay on the alias meanwhile but lose his vote on the bord and not count towards a meeting quorum
Jul 21 15:11:53 <dabbott>	Ok for your first job ... :)
Jul 21 15:12:19 <rich0>	dabbott: don't get carried away unless you plan to double my salary...
Jul 21 15:12:29 <quantumsummers|c>	triple it!
Jul 21 15:12:45 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, thats easy ... 2x nothing is still nothing
Jul 21 15:12:57 <rich0>	don't remind me
Jul 21 15:13:04 <NeddySeagoon>	Old business ... Trustee Election
Jul 21 15:13:22 <NeddySeagoon>	Its in the hands of elections nothing to add there.
Jul 21 15:13:36 <_robbat21irssi>	(i'm here, just minor work emergency)
Jul 21 15:14:05 <NeddySeagoon>	Do we need to clarifiy that trustees retain their seats and responsibilities until the end of the AGM ? 
Jul 21 15:14:21 <NeddySeagoon>	That was always the intent
Jul 21 15:14:52 <dabbott>	whats the wording currently
Jul 21 15:15:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Its just not clear.  Normally new trustees would be elected at the AGM, not before it
Jul 21 15:15:56 <NeddySeagoon>	Thats not practical for us
Jul 21 15:16:20 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, anything on the CPA or 501(c)(3) registration status ?
Jul 21 15:16:26 <rich0>	Just about any company makes its new board effective at the end of the AGM.
Jul 21 15:16:43 <rich0>	A board can't really claim to have done due diligence voting on matters they were not privy to 10 minutes earlier.
Jul 21 15:16:49 <jmbsvicetto>	NeddySeagoon: I thought the Bylaws stated that new board members start their term at the AGM?
Jul 21 15:16:57 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: nothing to report yet, just getting the summary data to them. I will have draft report prepared  over the next couple weeks
Jul 21 15:17:26 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, to present at the AGM?   That would be good timing
Jul 21 15:17:34 <quantumsummers|c>	yes, of course
Jul 21 15:17:39 <NeddySeagoon>	:)
Jul 21 15:17:55 <quantumsummers|c>	drafts will be passed around prior
Jul 21 15:18:11 <quantumsummers|c>	mainly so you guys can check the work ;)
Jul 21 15:18:13 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, your bit.  Foundation Activity Tracker  I think this goes with your new office
Jul 21 15:18:56 <rich0>	Uh, sure...  :)  Not really much to say - the AGM activites are the biggest thing pending now.
Jul 21 15:19:12 <rich0>	One thing I'd suggest is that when assembling the financials consider commiting as much of it as you can into the git repo.
Jul 21 15:19:19 <rich0>	(the stuff that can't be made public)
Jul 21 15:19:31 <NeddySeagoon>	sounds good.
Jul 21 15:21:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Reminder for the AGM, we will need Secy, treasuerers and presidents reports
Jul 21 15:21:31 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: yes, I am getting the entire history ready to commit
Jul 21 15:21:38 <quantumsummers|c>	mainly data files
Jul 21 15:21:45 <quantumsummers|c>	however, there are a bunch of PDF files/
Jul 21 15:21:58 <quantumsummers|c>	_robbat21irssi: do you mind if I commit those?
Jul 21 15:22:20 <quantumsummers|c>	they are blobs
Jul 21 15:22:27 <_robbat21irssi>	i'll review them with you after the meeting
Jul 21 15:22:28 <NeddySeagoon>	Item 4  Open Trustee Bugs
Jul 21 15:22:28 <quantumsummers|c>	ok
Jul 21 15:22:32 <NeddySeagoon>	Is there anything there we need to review today ? 
Jul 21 15:22:43 <quantumsummers|c>	 Bug 476722
Jul 21 15:22:56 <rich0>	Capturing it in whatever format it is in is more important than making it pretty.
Jul 21 15:23:05 <quantumsummers|c>	oops, that is new
Jul 21 15:23:15 <rich0>	My two cents.  Long-term we should move to standard formats, but the bus factor is a bigger issue I think.
Jul 21 15:23:27 <quantumsummers|c>	I do have soemthing for bug 471266 	
Jul 21 15:23:31 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, its not in my trustee list
Jul 21 15:23:35 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: you are talking about bank stuff right?
Jul 21 15:24:00 <quantumsummers|c>	so what I have are csv files for each year for each account (and monthly for paypal)
Jul 21 15:24:08 <quantumsummers|c>	I also have PDFs of statements from the banks
Jul 21 15:24:11 <quantumsummers|c>	that is it
Jul 21 15:24:38 <quantumsummers|c>	there may be some other PDFs too, scans of things like EIN, etc
Jul 21 15:24:54 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: yes, its in the list, the potential Iranian dev
Jul 21 15:25:05 <quantumsummers|c>	I think it is private, so I shall comment there
Jul 21 15:25:08 <dabbott>	Bug 471266 - (sobhan) New Developer: Sobhan Mohammadpour (sobhan) 
Jul 21 15:26:30 <quantumsummers|c>	hmm, that bug does not contain the stuff
Jul 21 15:26:32 <quantumsummers|c>	anyway, I am in conversation with sflc regarding this
Jul 21 15:26:33 <quantumsummers|c>	we have a new council also
Jul 21 15:26:34 <quantumsummers|c>	our previous fellow left and did not give notice to us
Jul 21 15:26:34 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, lets leave it to sflc
Jul 21 15:26:35 <quantumsummers|c>	so I talked with Dr. Moglen and we have a new council now\
Jul 21 15:26:38 <rich0>	I think that saving PDFs of what we get isn't a bad idea for legal reasons.  Wish git wasn't write-once-never-dispose-of though.  Legally we might want to think about retention at some point (but right now we're certainly not saving too much).
Jul 21 15:27:03 <rich0>	Not sure the council matters here - this is entirely a legal issue.  
Jul 21 15:27:13 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: git can nuke old stuff just fine, but it is a little tricky
Jul 21 15:27:16 <rich0>	If we were talking about qualifications or something the council would be more relevant.
Jul 21 15:28:01 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: all financial info/data I have saved, all of it
Jul 21 15:28:07 <quantumsummers|c>	we have SOX compliance to mind
Jul 21 15:28:14 <quantumsummers|c>	which I am taking care of
Jul 21 15:28:14 <rich0>	I think that issue is basically waiting on legal council.  From what I've read it probably isn't an issue for being a dev so much, but he could probably never be reimbursed/etc.
Jul 21 15:28:33 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: the bug you want is 472574
Jul 21 15:28:36 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, thats my view of the world too
Jul 21 15:28:48 <quantumsummers|c>	well, that depends though, since he is in an embargoed country, we may not be able to take his code contrib either
Jul 21 15:29:04 <rich0>	So either we go ahead without legal advice, or keep pushing on getting the legal advice.
Jul 21 15:29:12 <quantumsummers|c>	which is one thing I need to dicover, whether he has contrib or not
Jul 21 15:29:20 <rich0>	I'm fine with getting legal device.
Jul 21 15:29:25 <quantumsummers|c>	we are getting advice now, do that is good
Jul 21 15:29:32 <quantumsummers|c>	s/do/so/
Jul 21 15:29:55 <rich0>	If we're getting advice, I suggest we table the issue - no point in speculating if we've decided to get counsel.  Better to wait until we can move forward.
Jul 21 15:30:12 <dabbott>	+1
Jul 21 15:30:20 <_robbat21irssi>	+1
Jul 21 15:31:40 <NeddySeagoon>	yep
Jul 21 15:31:47 <dabbott>	_robbat21irssi: can you handle Bug 477374
Jul 21 15:32:02 <NeddySeagoon>	anything else from the bugs list ?
Jul 21 15:32:25 <quantumsummers|c>	should we give that company a sidebar thing for $500?
Jul 21 15:33:02 <quantumsummers|c>	as far as the discussion, we had it and he was fine with not being in there before due to the smallish donation
Jul 21 15:33:29 <quantumsummers|c>	also, if anyone noticed the transfer from paypal (9000 USD) we did get a donation from a Limey of $5000
Jul 21 15:33:35 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c not for a one time donation unless the side bar ad is time limited
Jul 21 15:33:38 <quantumsummers|c>	err Brit LD
Jul 21 15:33:59 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, I know what you meant  :)
Jul 21 15:34:03 <quantumsummers|c>	this new donor asked for nothing
Jul 21 15:34:25 <quantumsummers|c>	and made sure he was clear in his offer for further donations in the future
Jul 21 15:34:36 <quantumsummers|c>	nice fellow
Jul 21 15:34:45 <_robbat21irssi>	dabbott: bug 477374: done, asked him for his new logo
Jul 21 15:34:47 <quantumsummers|c>	(I'll shut up now, that was it)
Jul 21 15:35:05 <dabbott>	_robbat21irssi: thanks
Jul 21 15:35:32 <_robbat21irssi>	re sidebar donations, should we set a min target for them?
Jul 21 15:35:34 <quantumsummers|c>	likely, yes
Jul 21 15:35:35 <NeddySeagoon>	side bar ads are for ongoing donations
Jul 21 15:35:36 <_robbat21irssi>	also that
Jul 21 15:35:45 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: did the fellow want his nick to be known sure would like to thank him personally 
Jul 21 15:35:50 <quantumsummers|c>	_robbat21irssi: can you give an estimate of what the value is of current sidebar holders?
Jul 21 15:36:09 <quantumsummers|c>	I thanked him profusely via email
Jul 21 15:36:17 <quantumsummers|c>	that seemed enough to him
Jul 21 15:36:35 <quantumsummers|c>	and I didn't get his nickname, just email
Jul 21 15:36:35 <dabbott>	got it :)
Jul 21 15:36:54 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat21irssi, minimum recurring target
Jul 21 15:37:51 <NeddySeagoon>	I think Morphodo Bug 476722 got mixed in there - is it covered or not ?
Jul 21 15:38:24 <_robbat21irssi>	quantumsummers|c: none of them are less than $50/month worth of hardware, most are more than that
Jul 21 15:38:27 <NeddySeagoon>	if not, its the next agenda item
Jul 21 15:38:27 <dabbott>	we can do it now i added it also at the end of the agenda
Jul 21 15:38:40 <quantumsummers|c>	_robbat21irssi: ok, great. thanks
Jul 21 15:39:24 <quantumsummers|c>	one other bug, that has been bugging  me a little
Jul 21 15:39:28 <quantumsummers|c>	the bitcoin donation
Jul 21 15:39:33 <quantumsummers|c>	I see no way to support this
Jul 21 15:40:06 <quantumsummers|c>	personally, I am not familiar enough with how transactions are handled with financial institutions 
Jul 21 15:40:14 <NeddySeagoon>	I don't see it being useful for a while yet.  Particularly as its a very volitile currency
Jul 21 15:40:39 <quantumsummers|c>	it seems like we might just have a few bitcoins laying around collecting dust, so I am not in favor of this method
Jul 21 15:41:01 <NeddySeagoon>	+1
Jul 21 15:41:02 <quantumsummers|c>	anyone else have a comment on this?
Jul 21 15:41:10 <_robbat21irssi>	i'm not sure re IRS laws, but in Canada, the tax agency said you need to pay income tax on them when you convert to other currencies
Jul 21 15:41:21 <quantumsummers|c>	that seems correct
Jul 21 15:41:26 <_robbat21irssi>	capital gains of the growth in value etc
Jul 21 15:41:31 <_robbat21irssi>	like most investments
Jul 21 15:41:41 <quantumsummers|c>	I know the IRS is considering them as valueable 
Jul 21 15:41:53 <quantumsummers|c>	any issues declining to accept them at this time"
Jul 21 15:41:55 <quantumsummers|c>	?
Jul 21 15:41:58 <NeddySeagoon>	Just now, they are a PITA
Jul 21 15:42:05 <quantumsummers|c>	I agree with NeddySeagoon
Jul 21 15:42:06 <NeddySeagoon>	not from me
Jul 21 15:42:26 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: fine by me
Jul 21 15:42:40 <quantumsummers|c>	I'll consider that a majority
Jul 21 15:42:45 <_robbat21irssi>	if we accept them now, we just have to declare them as assets until we convert them
Jul 21 15:42:45 <_robbat21irssi>	but I don't see an issue with accepting them per se
Jul 21 15:42:53 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, that was carried
Jul 21 15:43:04 <quantumsummers|c>	I do not know how to handle them for an organization
Jul 21 15:43:20 <quantumsummers|c>	p2p it seems simple enough I guess
Jul 21 15:43:23 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat21irssi, its all the paperwork that goes with them if they are ever used
Jul 21 15:43:38 <NeddySeagoon>	Lets just decline for now
Jul 21 15:43:49 <quantumsummers|c>	lets re-evaluate after some period of time not less than 6 months
Jul 21 15:43:55 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, declining
Jul 21 15:44:36 <NeddySeagoon>	Morphodo Bug 476722 - did we deal with that ?
Jul 21 15:45:12 <dabbott>	no
Jul 21 15:45:27 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm ok with a listing on the sponsors page but not the sidebar
Jul 21 15:46:09 <quantumsummers|c>	seems reasonable to me
Jul 21 15:46:19 <dabbott>	yep fine by me
Jul 21 15:46:37 <NeddySeagoon>	thats 3 yes.  _robbat21irssi ?
Jul 21 15:47:13 <NeddySeagoon>	carried 
Jul 21 15:47:25 <NeddySeagoon>	Membership Applications
Jul 21 15:47:47 <quantumsummers|c>	both are devs, so aye
Jul 21 15:47:54 <NeddySeagoon>	Pavlos Ratis and Chris Reffett have applied
Jul 21 15:47:55 <dabbott>	+1
Jul 21 15:47:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Aye from me
Jul 21 15:48:16 <rich0>	Wasn't there a community application as well?
Jul 21 15:48:20 <_robbat2|irssi>	sorry, freenode weirdness
Jul 21 15:48:39 <_robbat2|irssi>	and I don't have alternative backlog to see what I missed
Jul 21 15:48:50 <_robbat2|irssi>	19:37 <@dabbott> quantumsummers|c: fine by me
Jul 21 15:48:54 <quantumsummers|c>	membership
Jul 21 15:48:56 <_robbat2|irssi>	19:37 <@_robbat21irssi> if we accept them now, we just have to declare them as assets until we convert them
Jul 21 15:48:56 <_robbat2|irssi>	19:37 <@_robbat21irssi> but I don't see an issue with accepting them per se
Jul 21 15:48:57 <dabbott>	_robbat21irssi: https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=476722
Jul 21 15:48:58 <_robbat2|irssi>	19:38 <@_robbat21irssi> maybe better as a comparision, would the foundation accept donations/assignments of stock from companies?
Jul 21 15:49:04 <_robbat2|irssi>	that's the last stuff I saw/said
Jul 21 15:49:08 <quantumsummers|c>	ah, we declined to support them
Jul 21 15:49:12 <quantumsummers|c>	I have updated the bug
Jul 21 15:49:22 <quantumsummers|c>	I will discuss with CPA also
Jul 21 15:49:27 <quantumsummers|c>	re-eval after some period
Jul 21 15:49:45 <quantumsummers|c>	the morphodo bug, we decided to not allow sidebar
Jul 21 15:50:03 <rich0>	Chris Gianelloni had also applied I believe
Jul 21 15:50:42 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: you sure about that?
Jul 21 15:50:48 <quantumsummers|c>	do you have the ID?
Jul 21 15:50:53 <dabbott>	no he just asked why he was dropped I did see him asking to re join unless i missed it
Jul 21 15:50:56 <quantumsummers|c>	I thought he dropped it, perhaps I am mistaken
Jul 21 15:50:56 <NeddySeagoon>	rich0, he asked why he wasn't on the members list.
Jul 21 15:51:26 <rich0>	FYI - I'm getting a huge wash of what look like old messages - likely a split or something.
Jul 21 15:51:27 <rich0>	Ah, I see, he didn't actually ask to be added back.
Jul 21 15:51:42 <NeddySeagoon>	I didn't see a follow up
Jul 21 15:51:50 <quantumsummers|c>	me either
Jul 21 15:52:02 <rich0>	Never mind.
Jul 21 15:52:03 <rich0>	I looked at the email again - no follow-up on his part.
Jul 21 15:52:04 <_robbat2|irssi>	morphodo: ok re sidebar, if they want just sponsors page, that's fine.
Jul 21 15:52:08 <quantumsummers|c>	_robbat21irssi: ok, good. 
Jul 21 15:52:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Cleanup ...
Jul 21 15:52:43 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 18 Aug 2013 19:00 UTC  Thats the AGM
Jul 21 15:52:49 <quantumsummers|c>	+1
Jul 21 15:52:55 <_robbat21irssi>	maybe better as a comparision, would the foundation accept donations/assignments of stock from companies?
Jul 21 15:53:02 <rich0>	++
Jul 21 15:53:22 <dabbott>	_robbat21irssi: thats what he said 35 a month and added to sponsors page and we voted ok
Jul 21 15:53:26 <quantumsummers|c>	_robbat21irssi: we can do that, I would have to talk with the CPA about how we should manage it of course, a
Jul 21 15:54:03 <NeddySeagoon>	_robbat21irssi, I would want notice of that question
Jul 21 15:54:14 <_robbat2|irssi>	wow freenode
Jul 21 15:54:14 <_robbat2|irssi>	i sent that 10+ mins ago
Jul 21 15:54:14 <_robbat2|irssi>	freenode seems to be resending stuff I said earlier
Jul 21 15:54:20 <quantumsummers|c>	weird
Jul 21 15:54:44 <quantumsummers|c>	well anyway, re: stock, I think that is much more standard asset than bitcoin and there is plenty of precendent
Jul 21 15:54:45 <NeddySeagoon>	Stock of Iranian companies ?
Jul 21 15:54:48 <quantumsummers|c>	heh
Jul 21 15:54:53 <quantumsummers|c>	funny guy, you
Jul 21 15:55:04 <dabbott>	next meeting is the AGM date is fine by me agenda from last year http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/minutes/2012/201208_trustees_agenda.xml
Jul 21 15:55:21 <dabbott>	agenda should be about the same
Jul 21 15:55:46 <NeddySeagoon>	I think if the stock was traded in the USA, yes
Jul 21 15:55:53 <quantumsummers|c>	yes
Jul 21 15:55:54 <quantumsummers|c>	or EU
Jul 21 15:55:55 <quantumsummers|c>	or Japan
Jul 21 15:55:56 <_robbat2|irssi>	i said stock on purpose, as for Canada, it's mostly that bitcoin is being treated as mostly as stock for tax purposes
Jul 21 15:55:57 <quantumsummers|c>	all standard stocks should be ok
Jul 21 15:55:59 <quantumsummers|c>	really
Jul 21 15:56:24 <quantumsummers|c>	well, let me see what the CPA has to say. I venture a guess that they have not heard much about it
Jul 21 15:56:26 <rich0>	I think in general we should be willing to accept donations of any kind as long as it is legal and worth the effort.
Jul 21 15:56:46 <rich0>	If somebody offered us $10 worth of stock, probably not worth it.  If somebody offered us $1M worth of bitcoins, we should probably take the time to figure out how to make it work.
Jul 21 15:56:52 <quantumsummers|c>	yes
Jul 21 15:56:56 <quantumsummers|c>	the latter being the key point
Jul 21 15:56:57 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, agreed.  We would have to value such stock and show due digience over our investment management.  That may be a pain
Jul 21 15:57:03 <quantumsummers|c>	yes
Jul 21 15:57:13 <quantumsummers|c>	or just cash in upon receipt
Jul 21 15:57:26 <rich0>	But these shouldn't really be preferred over some form of cash.
Jul 21 15:57:40 <quantumsummers|c>	anyway, it is worth a discussion. Cash is King
Jul 21 15:58:26 <quantumsummers|c>	discussion with the CPA, I mean
Jul 21 15:59:26 <quantumsummers|c>	some weird freenode stuffs going on here
Jul 21 15:59:27 <quantumsummers|c>	we ready for AoB?
Jul 21 15:59:28 <quantumsummers|c>	because, I have .... wait for it ....
Jul 21 15:59:29 <quantumsummers|c>	nothing
Jul 21 15:59:29 <quantumsummers|c>	:-)
Jul 21 16:01:35 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: still thinking about creating a Missouri Corp
Jul 21 16:01:36 <quantumsummers|c>	hello?
Jul 21 16:01:36 <quantumsummers|c>	anyone see this?
Jul 21 16:01:37 <quantumsummers|c>	am I alone
Jul 21 16:01:51 <quantumsummers|c>	**dances around** king in the castle
Jul 21 16:01:59 <rich0>	I'm here.
Jul 21 16:02:03 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: im here
Jul 21 16:02:06 <rich0>	But I think we may have lost half the team.
Jul 21 16:02:37 <quantumsummers|c>	dabbott: shelved for now
Jul 21 16:02:50 <quantumsummers|c>	not really useful, extra work, etc
Jul 21 16:02:57 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c, that would work
Jul 21 16:03:30 <_robbat2|irssi>	*a CPA discussion yes
Jul 21 16:03:30 <_robbat2|irssi>	if freenode behaves, i was going to ask for any comments on the council/infra officer discussion
Jul 21 16:03:30 <_robbat2|irssi>	i think maybe we can't see each other
Jul 21 16:03:45 <quantumsummers|c>	hmm, this is turning into a freenode mess
Jul 21 16:03:53 <quantumsummers|c>	_robbat2|irssi: I think you should be that officer
Jul 21 16:03:55 <dabbott>	_robbat2|irssi: see you now wecome to our world
Jul 21 16:04:03 <quantumsummers|c>	I also think we are going bust with freenode here
Jul 21 16:04:05 <dabbott>	*welcome
Jul 21 16:04:25 <dabbott>	seconded
Jul 21 16:04:29 <quantumsummers|c>	as far as council officer, we may have that with rich0
Jul 21 16:04:52 <dabbott>	++
Jul 21 16:05:46 <dabbott>	Neddys still not back
Jul 21 16:05:59 <quantumsummers|c>	there went Robin
Jul 21 16:06:14 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, this is getting out of hand
Jul 21 16:06:34 <quantumsummers|c>	Any other business?
Jul 21 16:06:38 <quantumsummers|c>	dabbott? rich0?
Jul 21 16:06:42 <dabbott>	nope
Jul 21 16:06:48 <quantumsummers|c>	Hi NeddySeagoon!
Jul 21 16:06:55 <quantumsummers|c>	I called AoB while you were in the mists of freenode whackyness
Jul 21 16:06:56 <quantumsummers|c>	no response
Jul 21 16:07:40 <quantumsummers|c>	morgan.freenode.net seems pretty stable
Jul 21 16:08:01 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, well I have to go take care of some hungry baby and a toddler who just ended napping rather abruptly.
Jul 21 16:08:05 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm back
Jul 21 16:08:05 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c we ready for AoB?
Jul 21 16:08:05 <quantumsummers|c>	hello
Jul 21 16:08:05 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c because, I have .... wait for it ....
Jul 21 16:08:06 <quantumsummers|c>	yes
Jul 21 16:08:06 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c nothing
Jul 21 16:08:06 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c :-)
Jul 21 16:08:06 <quantumsummers|c>	:)
Jul 21 16:08:06 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c hello?
Jul 21 16:08:07 <NeddySeagoon>	NeddySeagoon Oops I missed AoB
Jul 21 16:08:07 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c anyone see this?
Jul 21 16:08:07 <quantumsummers|c>	NeddySeagoon: I am here
Jul 21 16:08:08 <NeddySeagoon>	quantumsummers|c am I alone
Jul 21 16:08:08 <NeddySeagoon>	NeddySeagoon I'm here
Jul 21 16:08:09 <NeddySeagoon>	I got that
Jul 21 16:08:10 <NeddySeagoon>	roll call - again
Jul 21 16:08:10 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm on leguin.freenode.net
Jul 21 16:08:10 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, this is crazy
Jul 21 16:08:19 <dabbott>	im on calvino.freenode.net 
Jul 21 16:08:43 <rich0>	Well, unless something changes with freenode I suggest we just wrap up via email or something.
Jul 21 16:08:43 <rich0>	I don't see anything pressing, or any sign of AOB/etc.
Jul 21 16:09:36 <dabbott>	I will do the logs and the motions
Jul 21 16:10:13 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: ^^ if you return
Jul 21 16:10:48 <NeddySeagoon>	looks like just the two of us - my logger went away
Jul 21 16:11:45 <NeddySeagoon>	we agreed to wrop up in email
Jul 21 16:11:48 -NickServ-	This nickname is registered. Please choose a different nickname, or identify via /msg NickServ identify <password>.
Jul 21 16:11:48 -NickServ-	You are now identified for dabbott.
Jul 21 16:11:48 -NickServ-	You are already logged in as dabbott.
Jul 21 16:12:04 <_robbat2|irssi>	i think we might need to get all of our IRC logs seperately
Jul 21 16:13:19 <_robbat2|irssi>	ok, whomever has the gavel, this is closed
Jul 21 16:13:47 <dabbott>	roll call _ if you want to send me your logs I will put together yours with mine to post
Jul 21 16:13:58 <_robbat2|irssi>	will do
Jul 21 16:14:01 <_robbat2|irssi>	bye for now
Jul 21 16:14:16 <NeddySeagoon>	21:04   * NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the meeting
Jul 21 16:14:17 <dabbott>	bye save me some coffee :)
Jul 21 16:14:58 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: send me your log and i will put it with robbins and mine
Jul 21 16:15:14 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, OK
Jul 21 16:15:27 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: i will do the log and the motions
Jul 21 16:15:43 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, I will do the emails to new members
Jul 21 16:15:50 <dabbott>	thanks
