Aug 18 14:59:35 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the virtual gavel to open the Annual General Meeting of the Gentoo Foundation Inc.
Aug 18 14:59:42 <NeddySeagoon>	roll call
Aug 18 14:59:54 <SwifT>	i'm here
Aug 18 14:59:55 <NeddySeagoon>	I'm logging ... I think
Aug 18 14:59:56 <dabbott>	here
Aug 18 15:00:10 <SwifT>	also logging - just in case
Aug 18 15:00:11 <dabbott>	quantumsummers|c: EMAILED HE WILL BE LATE
Aug 18 15:00:22 <SwifT>	tsk tsk
Aug 18 15:00:33 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, ?
Aug 18 15:00:44 <robbat2>	yo
Aug 18 15:01:40 *	rich0 is in the peanut gallery
Aug 18 15:01:43 <NeddySeagoon>	For the AGM, we are required to have a quorum of members but I've never seen this channel over 29 so as we have a quorum of trustees, lets just do it. Any objections ?
Aug 18 15:01:57 <Betelgeuse>	here
Aug 18 15:02:17 <SwifT>	go for it
Aug 18 15:02:27 <NeddySeagoon>	thanks
Aug 18 15:02:30 <dabbott>	++
Aug 18 15:02:39 <Betelgeuse>	why was there no email on gentoo-foundation-announce about AGM?
Aug 18 15:02:54 <NeddySeagoon>	First off ... the presidents report http://dev.gentoo.org/~neddyseagoon/PresidentsReport_2013.xml
Aug 18 15:03:26 <robbat2>	Betelgeuse, it was in the july 12th email
Aug 18 15:03:32 <robbat2>	but I agree it should be seperate in future
Aug 18 15:04:08 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, do you want actionable comments about that report now or later?
Aug 18 15:04:15 <NeddySeagoon>	The July 12 email satisfied the 60 days notice
Aug 18 15:04:37 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, I'll take the comments now and action them post meeting
Aug 18 15:04:57 <robbat2>	re Weakening, we had discussed more officers, do you want to raise that only later?
Aug 18 15:05:20 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, yes - I've hined at that at the end
Aug 18 15:05:28 <NeddySeagoon>	hinted*
Aug 18 15:05:59 <robbat2>	ok, i'll get back to it at the end of the meeting then; i'll send you my grammar & spelling fixes later too then
Aug 18 15:06:15 <robbat2>	i motion to approve the report, subject to minor cleanups
Aug 18 15:06:29 <dabbott>	seconded
Aug 18 15:06:35 <SwifT>	aye
Aug 18 15:06:46 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, that works.  Any comments on content or other than grammer/style is the report accepted ?
Aug 18 15:06:50 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: stricly speaking it did not because the email did not have enough info: "Notice stating the place, date and hour of the meeting"
Aug 18 15:07:11 <Betelgeuse>	However, I doubt it would have made a difference
Aug 18 15:07:37 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse hehe - it hasn't for the last 5 years
Aug 18 15:07:57 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, no comments about the content other than the officers remark
Aug 18 15:08:18 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, thank you
Aug 18 15:08:42 <dabbott>	we can add it to the tracker email gentoo-foundation-announce 60 days in advance about AGM
Aug 18 15:08:47 <NeddySeagoon>	Next http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/secretary/2013_SecretarysReport.xml    Secretaries Report
Aug 18 15:09:16 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, Sounds like one for your assistant
Aug 18 15:09:22 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, err, we should have the rest of the votes on accepting the president report first shouldn't we?
Aug 18 15:10:15 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, well, the quorum is you me and dabbott.  SwifT and Betelgeuse don't take office until the end of the meeting 
Aug 18 15:10:24 <NeddySeagoon>	Do I need to vote for my own report ?
Aug 18 15:10:45 <NeddySeagoon>	I+1 from me as I wrote it
Aug 18 15:11:07 <robbat2>	hmm, i suppose strictly speaking that's true
Aug 18 15:11:14 <robbat2>	their votes don't quite count yet
Aug 18 15:11:51 <robbat2>	in which case, simply for ease of tracking out motions: the motion to approve the presidents report is approved
Aug 18 15:11:58 <robbat2>	*is passed
Aug 18 15:12:04 <NeddySeagoon>	thank you
Aug 18 15:12:08 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: the email to gentoo-dev-announce said: "The turnout for this election was 41.59%. We received 47 valid votes out from 
Aug 18 15:12:09 <dabbott>	robbat2: thanks noted 
Aug 18 15:12:11 <Betelgeuse>	a total of 113 eligible voters, with one pending vote."
Aug 18 15:12:50 <NeddySeagoon>	Next http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/secretary/2013_SecretarysReport.xml    Secretaries Report
Aug 18 15:13:00 <robbat2>	yeah, something doesn't mesh in the numbers
Aug 18 15:13:22 <robbat2>	i think it was a copy & paste error from the last report
Aug 18 15:13:32 <robbat2>	yep, http://www.gentoo.org/foundation/en/secretary/2012_SecretarysReport.xml
Aug 18 15:14:47 <NeddySeagoon>	The election for Gentoo Foundation Trustees has concluded. We had 229 eligible voters with 76 voting for a turnout of ~33%.    <--- looks wrong
Aug 18 15:15:03 <robbat2>	dabbott, please correct your report to say: We received 48 valid votes out from a total of 113 eligible voters, for a turnout of 42.4%. (The pending vote was accounted for)
Aug 18 15:15:37 <dabbott>	ok 
Aug 18 15:15:42 <robbat2>	the pending vote was jcallen's, because the voter roster had him by his old username, abcd, and that had to be switched before votify accepted his ballot
Aug 18 15:15:49 <dabbott>	missed that section
Aug 18 15:16:45 <robbat2>	also, sometime this week I'll send you the list of voters, so we can update the rollcall, as we probably need to expire more people off it for non-voting
Aug 18 15:17:51 <NeddySeagoon>	meanwhile, I would like to propose a vote of thnaks to the outgoing trustees, quantumsummers|c rich0 and robbat2  and welcome quantumsummers|c relected for a further term, SwifT for returning after a break and Betelgeuse  for his first term.
Aug 18 15:18:15 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, true - I need to update the ACL here too
Aug 18 15:18:45 <NeddySeagoon>	Do I have a second 
Aug 18 15:18:50 <robbat2>	seconded
Aug 18 15:18:55 <robbat2>	(despite it being for myself)
Aug 18 15:19:02 <NeddySeagoon>	vote
Aug 18 15:19:04 <NeddySeagoon>	aye
Aug 18 15:19:04 <robbat2>	aye
Aug 18 15:19:23 <dabbott>	yes
Aug 18 15:19:48 <SwifT>	thanks ;) glad to be of assistance
Aug 18 15:19:52 <NeddySeagoon>	Welcome to the board SwifT and Betelgeuse 
Aug 18 15:20:33 <NeddySeagoon>	We will come back to the Treasuers report when quantumsummers|c shows up
Aug 18 15:20:55 <NeddySeagoon>	Date of Next Meeting - 15th Sep 2012 19:00 UTC   Does this work for everyone ?
Aug 18 15:21:29 <SwifT>	yup
Aug 18 15:21:33 <dabbott>	yes
Aug 18 15:21:39 <Betelgeuse>	wfm
Aug 18 15:21:59 <NeddySeagoon>	Any other business ...
Aug 18 15:22:05 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, ?
Aug 18 15:22:12 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, an additional request for future agendas
Aug 18 15:22:19 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, sure
Aug 18 15:22:39 <robbat2>	at the bottom of each agenda, can you include the actual tentatives dates of future meetings, other than saying "the 3rd sunday"
Aug 18 15:22:59 <robbat2>	for ease of review
Aug 18 15:23:04 <dabbott>	I can do that
Aug 18 15:23:14 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, OK, we can add the mettings calendar up to the next AGM
Aug 18 15:23:16 <robbat2>	easy, nice to review
Aug 18 15:23:19 <robbat2>	that works too
Aug 18 15:23:25 <robbat2>	anyway, so the main AoB item
Aug 18 15:23:36 <robbat2>	is that we wanted to propose more officers for the foundation
Aug 18 15:24:04 <NeddySeagoon>	yeah - alex and Denis should not be allowed to escape
Aug 18 15:24:07 <robbat2>	with calchan & antarus being candidates for that, as well as quantumsummers|c suggesting in a previous meeting that I might be the infra liasion officer
Aug 18 15:24:39 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, It that an appointment you acctept ?
Aug 18 15:25:06 <robbat2>	if antarus wants it instead of me, I'm happy to give it to him; otherwise I will accept it
Aug 18 15:26:04 <robbat2>	but he's off camping at the moment
Aug 18 15:26:32 <NeddySeagoon>	I would like to see the whole officer thing on the agenda for next month. rich0s temporary appointment runs out, other officers contine to server but were never appointed by the current board.  e.g. me.
Aug 18 15:26:58 <robbat2>	maybe take it to email, and finalize at that meeting?
Aug 18 15:27:07 <NeddySeagoon>	Officers need to be reviewed and confirmed (or otherwise) in post
Aug 18 15:27:23 <dabbott>	NeddySeagoon: I will add it to the agenda
Aug 18 15:27:48 <NeddySeagoon>	Yeah - we can talk to  calchan & antarus meanwhile too
Aug 18 15:27:58 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, AoB ?
Aug 18 15:28:06 <dabbott>	none here
Aug 18 15:28:15 <NeddySeagoon>	SwifT, ?
Aug 18 15:28:21 <SwifT>	ok
Aug 18 15:28:30 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, AoB ?
Aug 18 15:28:54 <Betelgeuse>	NeddySeagoon: not for the meeting, if someone has links of material that would be useful to read, please send
Aug 18 15:29:10 <SwifT>	www.gentoo.org/foundation has a few to start
Aug 18 15:29:23 <NeddySeagoon>	yep.
Aug 18 15:29:46 <SwifT>	I definitely like the activity tracker - would be nice to add pointers to the "how" as well (links would do just fine)
Aug 18 15:29:50 <NeddySeagoon>	I'll post logs ... dabbot will you do motions please ?
Aug 18 15:30:06 <robbat2>	and immediately after this meeting, i'm going to update the mail alias
Aug 18 15:30:12 <dabbott>	SwifT: please update at will Betelgeuse also
Aug 18 15:30:20 <robbat2>	to drop myself and rich0
Aug 18 15:30:38 <robbat2>	or do you want us around for a bit still?
Aug 18 15:30:45 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, rich0 is still an officer - please leave him on the alias
Aug 18 15:31:18 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, it may be good for you to stay on until the  -infra liasion is sorted out
Aug 18 15:31:28 <dabbott>	yes
Aug 18 15:31:33 <Betelgeuse>	The "Articles of Incorporation of Gentoo Foundation, Inc." link is broken
Aug 18 15:32:18 <NeddySeagoon>	Open floor ...
Aug 18 15:33:13 <NeddySeagoon>	Betelgeuse, SwifT I have some document scans which were given to the 2008 board.  I'll email them to you
Aug 18 15:33:25 <SwifT>	ok
Aug 18 15:33:35 <robbat2>	send to the alias rather than just them
Aug 18 15:34:07 <NeddySeagoon>	dabbott, have you had time to fix your report or shall we take it to email along the quantumsummers|c report ?
Aug 18 15:34:19 <dabbott>	yea I fixed it
Aug 18 15:34:25 <robbat2>	SwifT, Betelgeuse: for documentation purposes, I'd like to note that all email on the trustees alias is privately archived; and you can get a copy of it again if you need it
Aug 18 15:34:49 <NeddySeagoon>	robbat2, everyone else already has this stuff - I suspect Swift has seen it too
Aug 18 15:35:03 <robbat2>	NeddySeagoon, just so it's definetly in the archive
Aug 18 15:35:11 <NeddySeagoon>	but OK, I'll send it to the alias
Aug 18 15:35:44 <Betelgeuse>	robbat2: what does privately mean in this context?
Aug 18 15:35:57 <robbat2>	Betelgeuse, if you want the archive, you need to ask somebody in infra for it
Aug 18 15:36:01 <robbat2>	it's not in the public archives
Aug 18 15:36:19 <NeddySeagoon>	As there ia nothing from quantumsummers|c we will take the Treasurers report and amended Secretaries report on the alias and vote next meeting
Aug 18 15:36:36 <Betelgeuse>	robbat2: ok
Aug 18 15:36:42 *	NeddySeagoon bangs the gavel to close the 2013 AGM

