Sep 15 15:05:46 <SwifT>	3. Old business - (a.) Annual Report NM DUE Oct/Nov
Sep 15 15:06:10 <dabbott>	I have all the info needed
Sep 15 15:06:48 <dabbott>	Nov 15 is the deadline so I will do it next month
Sep 15 15:07:18 <SwifT>	ok
Sep 15 15:07:37 <dabbott>	we only need a vice president but required
Sep 15 15:07:42 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to quantumsummers
Sep 15 15:07:54 <dabbott>	hi quantumsummers :)
Sep 15 15:08:04 <quantumsummers>	hello folks
Sep 15 15:08:16 <SwifT>	ok; do we need to find a vice president right now? or can this be handled outside the meeting?
Sep 15 15:08:19 <SwifT>	hi quantumsummers|c 
Sep 15 15:08:24 <SwifT>	(without |c then)
Sep 15 15:08:35 <quantumsummers>	sorry am late been sick since 4am
Sep 15 15:08:54 <dabbott>	we don't need it now just open
Sep 15 15:08:55 <SwifT>	quantumsummers: no worries - just don't throw up on the keyboard
Sep 15 15:09:14 <quantumsummers>	on my phone in the sick room actually.
Sep 15 15:09:46 <quantumsummers>	regardless I'll try to reserve myself.
Sep 15 15:09:51 <SwifT>	are there any requirements on the vice president? For instance, need to be US resident or not?
Sep 15 15:09:58 <quantumsummers>	no
Sep 15 15:10:59 <quantumsummers>	only thing is that they must not be prohibited from serving as an officer by a US court.
Sep 15 15:10:59 <SwifT>	ok, I'll mail trustees@g.o to see who is candidate so we can fill it in
Sep 15 15:11:30 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: next month I will file with NM, should I open a bug for it?
Sep 15 15:11:30 <quantumsummers>	err, seem like I have been VP since ferris passed.
Sep 15 15:11:55 <dabbott>	ok sound good I will add it to the form for NM
Sep 15 15:11:57 <SwifT>	well, that would definitely be fine by me to keep you as VP
Sep 15 15:12:08 <Betelgeuse>	seconded
Sep 15 15:12:09 <quantumsummers>	on paper anyway. were we going to have robin or rich do that?
Sep 15 15:12:36 <quantumsummers>	dabbott bug if you need it.
Sep 15 15:13:16 <dabbott>	ok
Sep 15 15:13:19 <quantumsummers>	dabbott let's get together next week and go over the filing. OK?
Sep 15 15:13:31 <dabbott>	yes sounds good
Sep 15 15:13:38 <quantumsummers>	cool.
Sep 15 15:13:54 <SwifT>	ok; next on the agenda is the Activity Tracker
Sep 15 15:14:22 <dabbott>	its pretty easy online now I have all the info just need to pay and looks like it is a done deal
Sep 15 15:14:23 <SwifT>	it has seen a few changes since last meeting (annual report and such have been linked)
Sep 15 15:14:55 <SwifT>	I find it a very handy worktool!
Sep 15 15:15:07 <quantumsummers>	excuse me for a couple mins as I clean out.
Sep 15 15:15:47 <SwifT>	anything else for the activity tracker? things missing?
Sep 15 15:16:14 <quantumsummers>	not that bad. my report is not complete.
Sep 15 15:16:20 <dabbott>	no I just need to update the election process some more
Sep 15 15:16:30 <quantumsummers>	for which I apologize
Sep 15 15:16:38 <SwifT>	quantumsummers: do you have an idea when we might have it ready?
Sep 15 15:17:37 <quantumsummers>	not today, that is certain. I have most every thing back from our CPA.
Sep 15 15:17:48 <SwifT>	CPA?
Sep 15 15:18:04 <quantumsummers>	accountant
Sep 15 15:18:12 <SwifT>	ok
Sep 15 15:18:30 <SwifT>	are you also "in charge" for the IRS Return 990 ?
Sep 15 15:18:49 <quantumsummers>	I will commit to finishing it this week. Yes the 990ez
Sep 15 15:19:00 <SwifT>	ok, great
Sep 15 15:19:17 <quantumsummers>	CPA manages all the tough stuff
Sep 15 15:19:43 <SwifT>	as long as we file our stuff in due time
Sep 15 15:19:50 <quantumsummers>	not that the 990ez is tough, but that is their profession
Sep 15 15:19:55 <SwifT>	=)
Sep 15 15:20:09 <quantumsummers>	we will file on time no prob
Sep 15 15:20:11 <SwifT>	I think those are the things from the tracker that are in close proximity
Sep 15 15:20:25 <SwifT>	next?
Sep 15 15:20:46 <dabbott>	current efile info http://gentoo-pr.org/downloads/efile.pdf for review
Sep 15 15:20:56 <quantumsummers>	cool
Sep 15 15:21:11 <SwifT>	thx
Sep 15 15:21:55 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: my address is wrong
Sep 15 15:21:56 <SwifT>	next on the agenda was quantumsummers with "Certified Public Accountant" (hah, now I see the abbrevation :-p ) and 501(c)3 registration status
Sep 15 15:22:10 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: It's Iivisniemenaukio not Livisniemenaukio
Sep 15 15:22:21 <SwifT>	I assume some (most?) of that has already been said
Sep 15 15:22:26 <dabbott>	ok noted
Sep 15 15:22:35 <quantumsummers>	nothing new for that save what I noted above.
Sep 15 15:22:46 <Betelgeuse>	dabbott: I have never seen FD as country code for Finland.
Sep 15 15:23:15 <SwifT>	dabbott: my country is "BE" (Belgium), nog "BG" (Bulgaria)
Sep 15 15:23:18 <quantumsummers>	Just put Suomi in there ;-)
Sep 15 15:23:42 <SwifT>	unless it's not ISO codes in that file :p
Sep 15 15:24:11 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: since both of ours are weird it might not be :D
Sep 15 15:24:18 <quantumsummers>	who knows these state govt forms have poor international QA
Sep 15 15:24:43 <dabbott>	yep it is drop down :)
Sep 15 15:24:50 <SwifT>	lol
Sep 15 15:24:51 <quantumsummers>	where poor is likely none.
Sep 15 15:25:09 <SwifT>	ok - next on the agenda is "Open trustee bugs"
Sep 15 15:25:11 <quantumsummers>	dabbott now we should file a but
Sep 15 15:25:12 <Betelgeuse>	quantumsummers: is there FI?
Sep 15 15:25:28 <quantumsummers>	I dunno ask David.
Sep 15 15:25:52 <SwifT>	anyone any trustee bugs that they want to discuss?
Sep 15 15:26:15 <dabbott>	Its a drop down that puts that info in there itself I entered the correct country
Sep 15 15:26:37 <quantumsummers>	I am not aware of any bugs that need attention.
Sep 15 15:27:13 <quantumsummers>	pretty soon I will file the gsoc summit reimbursement bugs
Sep 15 15:27:32 <SwifT>	ok - next on the agenda is "New Business - Officer status and vote"
Sep 15 15:27:37 <quantumsummers>	and get the Google po in there with the o hers
Sep 15 15:28:53 <dabbott>	I want to nominate Roy to continue as President
Sep 15 15:29:01 <SwifT>	seconded
Sep 15 15:29:05 <quantumsummers>	+1
Sep 15 15:30:04 <Betelgeuse>	I assume he's said he's willing?
Sep 15 15:30:09 <quantumsummers>	that is a fair certainty
Sep 15 15:30:59 <dabbott>	He just wanted it to be affirmed and recorded afair
Sep 15 15:31:04 <SwifT>	I have not seen any in either direction from him, and he still has to accept (or decline) his nomination, but I'm fairly certain he's going for it as well
Sep 15 15:31:10 <Betelgeuse>	ok
Sep 15 15:31:10 <quantumsummers>	I'd be very surprised if he did not.
Sep 15 15:31:25 <quantumsummers>	wfm.
Sep 15 15:31:31 <SwifT>	Betelgeuse: you ok with Roy being nominated for another year of presidency?
Sep 15 15:31:55 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: sure
Sep 15 15:32:05 <SwifT>	great
Sep 15 15:32:35 <SwifT>	for vice presidency, quantumsummers is currently enlisted - for me, I also suggest keeping quantumsummers there ;)
Sep 15 15:33:28 <dabbott>	seconded unless he want to just be the treasurer
Sep 15 15:33:34 <quantumsummers>	in a few months I would like someone else as VP. let's just keep me in for the filings.
Sep 15 15:33:49 <Betelgeuse>	ok
Sep 15 15:33:52 <SwifT>	ok
Sep 15 15:33:54 <quantumsummers>	I planned to stay treasurer
Sep 15 15:34:21 <SwifT>	well, that brings us to the treasurer part nicely - +1 for quantumsummers as treasurer
Sep 15 15:34:48 <dabbott>	seconded
Sep 15 15:34:49 <quantumsummers>	up to now there have not been any duties specific to VP. we should change that with the new person.
Sep 15 15:35:08 <quantumsummers>	thanks for keeping me
Sep 15 15:35:46 <dabbott>	lets open a thread on the mail list for vp and duties and who would like the position
Sep 15 15:35:53 <SwifT>	Betelgeuse: you agree with quantumsummers for treasurer?
Sep 15 15:35:57 <SwifT>	dabbott: good idea
Sep 15 15:36:04 <quantumsummers>	good idea
Sep 15 15:36:04 <Betelgeuse>	SwifT: wfm
Sep 15 15:36:07 <SwifT>	dabbott: mailinglist (-nfp) or alias?
Sep 15 15:36:16 <dabbott>	alias for now
Sep 15 15:36:19 <SwifT>	k
Sep 15 15:36:26 <SwifT>	finally, secretary
Sep 15 15:36:28 <quantumsummers>	+1
Sep 15 15:36:38 <quantumsummers>	keep dabbott
Sep 15 15:36:48 <SwifT>	I think dabbott is doing a great job there, so I would like to keep him there for another year ;)
Sep 15 15:36:58 <dabbott>	yes thanks
Sep 15 15:36:59 <quantumsummers>	well said
Sep 15 15:37:14 <Betelgeuse>	wfm
Sep 15 15:37:31 <SwifT>	ok, I think we have all the standard officer roles done now
Sep 15 15:37:46 <SwifT>	next on the agenda?
Sep 15 15:37:55 <SwifT>	"Sponsorship Requests - Leaseweb"
Sep 15 15:38:36 <dabbott>	LeaseWeb is done I should have removed it from the agenda, its in infra hands now
Sep 15 15:38:48 <SwifT>	yup, we saw the leaseweb mails pass by
Sep 15 15:38:51 <quantumsummers>	cool
Sep 15 15:39:04 <dabbott>	Bug 482094
Sep 15 15:39:05 <SwifT>	so nothing for us anymore on Leaseweb?
Sep 15 15:39:42 <quantumsummers>	I'm sure robbat2 will let us kno if anything comes up
Sep 15 15:39:57 <SwifT>	next then is "Membership Applications - Doug Goldstein (cardoe@gentoo.org) and Steven J. Long (slong@rathaus.eclipse.co.uk)"
Sep 15 15:40:10 <dabbott>	+1
Sep 15 15:40:13 <Betelgeuse>	+1
Sep 15 15:40:16 <SwifT>	+1 here as well
Sep 15 15:40:20 <quantumsummers>	Goldstein +1
Sep 15 15:40:37 <quantumsummers>	is Long a dev now?
Sep 15 15:40:43 <SwifT>	no he's not
Sep 15 15:40:53 <SwifT>	at least, not to my knowledge
Sep 15 15:41:03 <dabbott>	no community member Roy voiced his support
Sep 15 15:41:13 <quantumsummers>	hmm. I have not read his stuff. I will abstain.
Sep 15 15:41:34 <Betelgeuse>	I think he's been vocal on the mls
Sep 15 15:41:41 <dabbott>	I don't know him that well his history anyway
Sep 15 15:41:47 <SwifT>	from the Internets, I notice he's quite active for gentoo (forum & mailinglists) and shows mature interaction
Sep 15 15:41:56 <dabbott>	he helps on gentoo-cev-help 
Sep 15 15:42:12 <quantumsummers>	yes. quite vocal. seems like he hit the devrel+ radar
Sep 15 15:42:35 <quantumsummers>	I trust you guys
Sep 15 15:43:02 <quantumsummers>	please proceed with my abstention.
Sep 15 15:43:07 <SwifT>	ok
Sep 15 15:43:20 <dabbott>	I'm ok with it
Sep 15 15:43:21 <SwifT>	so we welcome Doug (4+) and Steven (3+) 
Sep 15 15:43:43 <dabbott>	I will send the mails to them
Sep 15 15:43:43 <SwifT>	that's it for the fixed agenda
Sep 15 15:43:48 <SwifT>	dabbott: great, thx
Sep 15 15:44:07 <SwifT>	dabbott: will you also update the membership list accordingly?
Sep 15 15:44:16 <dabbott>	yes will do
Sep 15 15:44:32 <quantumsummers>	thanks dabbott
Sep 15 15:44:46 <quantumsummers>	how do you like the app?
Sep 15 15:44:54 <SwifT>	ok - that's it for the (fixed) agenda; 
Sep 15 15:45:02 <quantumsummers>	sucks don't it ;-)
Sep 15 15:45:15 <dabbott>	quantumsummers: great can we update it for 1.4 as 1.2 will be removed soonish
Sep 15 15:45:57 <quantumsummers>	sure. I think it will work with any django version, but lemme test in a venv
Sep 15 15:46:00 <dabbott>	sorry its on 1.3 so
Sep 15 15:46:01 <SwifT>	finally, "finishing touches" responsibilities
Sep 15 15:46:19 <SwifT>	Who will post the log? I can do that tomorrow early
Sep 15 15:46:38 <dabbott>	SwifT: i will  do both
Sep 15 15:46:45 <SwifT>	dabbott: ok
Sep 15 15:47:09 <SwifT>	dabbott: with "both", you mean "post logs / minutes" ? 
Sep 15 15:47:16 <dabbott>	I will add the motions for membership and officers
Sep 15 15:47:21 <SwifT>	great
Sep 15 15:47:24 <dabbott>	yep
Sep 15 15:47:31 <dabbott>	both 
Sep 15 15:47:47 <SwifT>	i'd vote you in for a decade of secretary :;p
Sep 15 15:48:04 <SwifT>	I think we have had all agenda topics then; final is "open floor"
Sep 15 15:48:30 <dabbott>	as for the agenda SwifT Betelgeuse quantumsummers feel free to add to or remove items as needed tracker also :)
Sep 15 15:48:39 <SwifT>	dabbott: will do
Sep 15 15:48:48 <quantumsummers>	thanks dabbott
Sep 15 15:48:51 <SwifT>	quantumsummers: is the "treasurers report" linked ot the IRS filing?
Sep 15 15:48:59 <SwifT>	quantumsummers: or are they separate things?
Sep 15 15:49:23 <quantumsummers>	linked? we use the data from the CPA workup in the 990
Sep 15 15:49:46 <quantumsummers>	my report is aimed at a general audience
Sep 15 15:50:14 <SwifT>	ok
Sep 15 15:50:24 <quantumsummers>	so they are separate, formally.
Sep 15 15:52:17 <SwifT>	on the trademark stuff, I've mailed the django sw foundation to see if we are allowed to create a trademark license similar to theirs - once I have answer from them, I'll make a gentoo-ified version for us to discuss
Sep 15 15:52:51 <dabbott>	SwifT: thanks 
Sep 15 15:53:52 <SwifT>	if nothing else, we can close this meeting - next is on october 20th, 1900UTC - this channel
