Apr 21 15:08:08 <quantumsummers|c>	roll call
Apr 21 15:08:12 <dabbott>	here
Apr 21 15:08:16 <quantumsummers|c>	here
Apr 21 15:08:18 <rich0>	here
Apr 21 15:08:23 <quantumsummers|c>	quorum
Apr 21 15:08:42 *	rich0 notes that next month we should announce the next election recording date in June.  No action needed now.
Apr 21 15:08:58 <quantumsummers|c>	Motion: move all items to email, call open floor, and close the official meeting
Apr 21 15:09:00 <dabbott>	who is up
Apr 21 15:09:26 <quantumsummers|c>	oops, rich0 noted
Apr 21 15:09:39 <quantumsummers|c>	seems like I am up perhaps
Apr 21 15:09:42 <rich0>	quantumsummers|c: fine by me, but any motions (if any) should be posted 
Apr 21 15:09:55 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: certainly
Apr 21 15:10:11 *	ChanServ gives channel operator status to bluebottle
Apr 21 15:10:32 <bluebottle>	Sorry I'm late
Apr 21 15:10:39 <dabbott>	I think robbat2 is also up
Apr 21 15:10:50 <quantumsummers|c>	bluebottle: hello, no prob
Apr 21 15:11:17 <bluebottle>	I'm on 1024x600 - can someone else run the meeeting please
Apr 21 15:11:33 <quantumsummers|c>	bluebottle: already taken it
Apr 21 15:11:41 <bluebottle>	quantumsummers|c, thanks
Apr 21 15:12:08 <quantumsummers|c>	bluebottle: if you agree, we will move the meeting items (few if anything) to email, call open floor and end the meeting early.
Apr 21 15:12:20 <_robbat21irssi>	back
Apr 21 15:12:32 <dabbott>	hi _robbat21irssi 
Apr 21 15:13:17 <bluebottle>	quantumsummers|c, seconded
Apr 21 15:13:55 <_robbat21irssi>	i votr aye, but ask one thing
Apr 21 15:14:03 <quantumsummers|c>	ask away
Apr 21 15:14:14 <_robbat21irssi>	the prior business re donating to osl per lance's request
Apr 21 15:14:33 <_robbat21irssi>	any objections to it?
Apr 21 15:14:34 <bluebottle>	I have not seen the request
Apr 21 15:14:46 <_robbat21irssi>	quantumsummers|c: mentioned it last meeting
Apr 21 15:14:49 <quantumsummers|c>	right. no objections but we need a proposal/request
Apr 21 15:14:53 <bluebottle>	but no objections to a regular donation
Apr 21 15:14:55 <quantumsummers|c>	I have not received anything from him
Apr 21 15:15:02 <_robbat21irssi>	but there wasn't any further detail
Apr 21 15:15:05 <_robbat21irssi>	ah
Apr 21 15:15:08 <quantumsummers|c>	right
Apr 21 15:15:22 <quantumsummers|c>	he had mentioned ~$500 per month to assist in the shortfall
Apr 21 15:15:37 <rich0>	Suggest taking to email/bugzilla.  Would want to discuss the details.  
Apr 21 15:15:38 <quantumsummers|c>	but stated he would provide a formal proposal
Apr 21 15:15:42 <quantumsummers|c>	yes
Apr 21 15:15:43 <quantumsummers|c>	agree
Apr 21 15:15:47 <quantumsummers|c>	I can file a bug
Apr 21 15:15:50 <quantumsummers|c>	now
Apr 21 15:16:03 <rich0>	At $500/month we should probably determine if we really need everything they're providing us (the answer might be yes, but we should be sure).
Apr 21 15:16:07 <_robbat21irssi>	please do, and i'll remind him re proposal
Apr 21 15:16:08 <bluebottle>	ot poke lance, or both
Apr 21 15:16:39 <_robbat21irssi>	rich0 for what we're getting, it's a bargain
Apr 21 15:16:44 <bluebottle>	rich0, $500/month is way below cost
Apr 21 15:17:04 <rich0>	My question wasn't so much whether we're getting our money's worth, but do we NEED what we're getting.
Apr 21 15:17:14 <rich0>	Happy to take it off the meeting, though.
Apr 21 15:17:55 <quantumsummers|c>	bug 466716
Apr 21 15:18:01 <_robbat21irssi>	need: yes, for both releng+infra
Apr 21 15:18:10 <_robbat21irssi>	but i'll back it up in the bug
Apr 21 15:18:37 <quantumsummers|c>	I will close  Bug 418203 Google Summer of Code Invoices, I have uploaded 2012 now
Apr 21 15:18:48 <bluebottle>	ok
Apr 21 15:18:51 <quantumsummers|c>	( will re-open for 2013)
Apr 21 15:18:53 <rich0>	Thanks - that really applys to any infra we consume - just want to make sure we're getting use out of what we're consuming, even if it is free to us.
Apr 21 15:19:15 <rich0>	Infra's word is good enough - just want to make sure it was considered.
Apr 21 15:19:47 <rich0>	quantumsummers|c: up to you, but you might consider opening a new one each year.  Either that, or make it clear in a comment what is and isn't pending.
Apr 21 15:20:14 <quantumsummers|c>	rich0: sure. although now we have 2006 - 2012 all in one bug
Apr 21 15:20:24 <bluebottle>	We should review the need and the amount every year
Apr 21 15:20:35 <bluebottle>	ignore that
Apr 21 15:20:38 <quantumsummers|c>	bluebottle: agreed
Apr 21 15:21:01 <quantumsummers|c>	for my limited use (1/2 rack) I pay ~800 per month
Apr 21 15:21:13 <bluebottle>	my display system just died permanently :(
Apr 21 15:21:18 <quantumsummers|c>	includes bandwidth, power, etc
Apr 21 15:21:22 <quantumsummers|c>	bluebottle: ouch
Apr 21 15:21:52 *	bluebottle hopes its the video card ...
Apr 21 15:22:30 <_robbat21irssi>	anyway, thx, anything else to email
Apr 21 15:22:37 <quantumsummers|c>	ok, I'm going to call open floor now
Apr 21 15:22:53 <quantumsummers|c>	Formal Agenda has been moved to email.
Apr 21 15:22:57 <quantumsummers|c>	Open Floor!
Apr 21 15:23:01 <quantumsummers|c>	any takers?
Apr 21 15:23:17 <quantumsummers|c>	going once
Apr 21 15:23:24 <quantumsummers|c>	going twice...
Apr 21 15:23:42 <quantumsummers|c>	three times a lady? anyone? Bueller? Bueller?
Apr 21 15:23:50 <quantumsummers|c>	Open Floor is closed
Apr 21 15:23:58 <quantumsummers|c>	Here endeth this meeting.
